"What tumor suppressor gene does the E6 protein from Human Papillomavirus (HPV) bind to and inhibit? p53"
"What tumor suppressor does the E7 protein from Human Papillomavirus (HPV) bind to and inhibit? p105-Rb::specific"
"A(n) sinonasal papilloma is a benign tumor of the squamous mucosa of the sinuses that is thought to be due to HPV infection"
"Laryngeal papillomas are benign papillary squamous proliferations commonly found on the true vocal cords. They are associated with HPV6 and HPV11"
"Koilocytes have characteristic perinuclear halos that are hallmarks of HPV infections"
"Levothyroxine is a recombinant form of T4 that serves as a thyroxine replacement. It has agonist action at thyroid hormone receptors"
"Condyloma Acuminatum is a type of Condyloma that is caused by HPV, typically types 6 and 11"
"Koilocytes are a histological feature of HPV infected cells and are a hallmark of HPV infection"
"What is the carcinoma risk associated with HPV6 and HPV11? Low"
"What types of HPV are the cause of HPV-related vulvar carcinoma? High Risk HPVs (16, 18, 31, 33)"
"Which type of Vulvar Carcinoma is typically seen in women of reproductive age? HPV-related"
"What is the most common cause of Vaginal Carcinoma? High-risk HPV subtypes (16, 18, 31, 33)::be specific"
"Which area of the cervix is especially targeted by HPV? Transformation zone"
"What is the cancer risk associated with HPV16? High"
"What is the cancer risk associated with HPV18? High"
"What is the cancer risk associated with HPV31? High"
"What is the cancer risk associated with HPV33? High"
"What is the cancer risk associated with HPV6? Low"
"What is the cancer risk associated with HPV11? Low"
"Which protein from high-risk HPV strains binds to p53? E6"
"E6 is a protein from high-risk HPV that binds to p53"
"E7 is a protein from high-risk HPV that binds to Rb"
"Which protein from high-risk HPV binds to Rb (specifically p105-Rb)? E7"
"Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN) is a dysplastic pre-cancerous cervical lesion often occuring after loss of p53 and Rb post-HPV infection"
"What are the most common types of low-risk HPV? HPV6; HPV11"
"What is the key risk factor for Cervical Carcinoma? High-risk HPV (16, 18, 31, 33)"
"What is the gold standard procedure for screening for Cervical Carcinoma? Pap Smear"
"What is the cancer risk associated with HPV42-44? Low"
"What urogenital disorder is associated with low-risk HPV subtypes? Condylomas/warts"
"Koilocytes are a histological feature of HPV infected cells and involve a nucleus with a 'raisin-like' shape"
"What strains of HPV cause Condylomata Acuminatum? HPV6; HPV11"
"What is the most common risk factor for Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Penis? High-risk HPV [16, 18, 31, 33] (66% of cases)"
"Besides high-risk HPV, what is the second most major risk factor for Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Penis? Lack of circumcision and poorly maintained foreskin"
"Verruca (Warts) are soft, flesh-coloured, cauliflower-like papules that appear on the skin due to HPV infection of keratinocytes"
"What is the cause of Verruca (Warts)? HPV 1-4 infection of Keratinocytes"
"Which cell cycle checkpoint is blocked by p53? G1 to S"
"Which cell cycle checkpoint is blocked by hypophosphorylated Rb? G1 to S"
"Hereditary Spherocytosis is an autosomal dominant hematological disorder that involves spheroid erythrocytes due to a spectrin or ankyrin defect"
"Patau Syndrome (Trisomy 13) is an autosomal trisomy that is associated with rocker-bottom feet and microphthalmia"
"Patau Syndrome (Trisomy 13) is an autosomal trisomy that is associated with cleft lip::face and cleft palate::face"
"DiGeorge Syndrome is a 22q11 deletion syndrome that presents with thymic aplasia, parathyroid aplasia and cardiac defects"
"Why doesn't Rickettsia spp. gram stain well? Obligate intracellular bacteria"
"Which stain is used to best visualize Chlamydia? Giemsa stain"
"Which stain is used to best visualize Borrelia? Giemsa"
"Which stain is best used to visualize Rickettsiae? Giemsa"
"Which stain is used to visualize Trypanosomes? Giemsa"
"Which stain is used to visualize Plasmodium? Giemsa"
"Which stain is used to visualize Cryptococcus neoformans? India ink"
"Which special culture media/agar is used to isolate Neisseria gonorrhoeae or Neisseria meningitidis? Thayer-Martin (VPN) media::... aka ..."
"Löwenstein Jensen agar::Which special culture media/agar is used to isolate Mycobacterium tuberculosis"
"Eaton agar::Which special culture media/agar is used to isolate Mycoplasma pneumoniae, as it contains cholesterol necessary for growth"
"Sabouraud agar::Which special culture media/agar is used to isolate fungi"
"Rickettsia spp. and Chlamydia spp. are obligate intracellular, pleomorphic, gram-negative bacteria that cannot make their own ATP"
"Neisseria meningitidis is a species of Neisseria that is encapsulated"
"What is the urease expression of Staphylococcus epidermidis? Positive"
"What is the urease expression of Staphylococcus saprophyticus? Positive"
"What is the Novobiocin sensitivity of Staphylococcus saprophyticus? Resistant"
"What is the Novobiocin sensitivity of Staphylococcus epidermidis? Sensitive"
"Preformed enterotoxins::Which exotoxin from Staphylococcus aureus causes rapid::rapid or slow-onset food poisoning"
"Which Staphylococcus species is the 2nd most common cause of uncomplicated UTI in young women? Staphylococcus saprophyticus"
"Which bacteria is the most common cause of meningitis? Streptococcus pneumoniae"
"Where in the body are Group D Streptococci (Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium) normally found? Colon (GI) and urogenital (GU)"
"Subacute endocarditis is a cardiac complication caused by Group D Streptococci (Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium) following GI/GU procedures"
"Which toxin from Clostridium tetani causes Tetanus? Tetanospasmin"
"Granulomatosis Infantiseptica is a complication of Listeria monocytogenes infection in neonates that involves the formation of pyogenic granulomas distributed over the whole body"
"Pott's Disease is a possible complication of extrapulmonary Tuberculosis that involves spread of infection to vertebral bodies"
"What color colonies do lactose-fermenting enteric bacteria yield on MacConkey agar? Pink"
"Which species of Neisseria ferments glucose and maltose? Neisseria meningitidis"
"IgA Protease is a protein secreted by Neisseria spp. that functions to cleave secreted host IgA at its hinge region"
"Neisseria gonorrhoeae::Which species of Neisseria is often found intracellularly in neutrophils (PMNs)"
"Neisseria meningitidis::Which species of Neisseria has a polysaccharide capsule, which inhibits phagocytosis"
"Neisseria gonorrhoeae is a species of Neisseria that has no vaccine due to rapid antigenic variation of pilus proteins"
"Which serotype of Neisseria meningitidis lacks a vaccine? Type B*"
"Neisseria meningitidis is transmitted via Respiratory and Oral secretions"
"Fitz-Hugh-Curtis Syndrome is a rare complication of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) that involves inflammation of the liver capsule and formation of \violin-string\\" adhesions\""
"Neonatal Conjunctivitis is an early (2-5 days) ocular infection seen in neonates due to Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection during childbirth"
"Septic Arthritis, most commonly of the knee is a musculoskeletal complication of Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection"
"What is the etiology of meningococcemia? Neisseria meningitidis"
"What organism causes Relapsing Fever? Borrelia recurrentis"
"How is Relapsing Fever (Borrelia recurrentis) transmitted? Louse"
"Which pet animals are associated with Campylobacter infection? Puppies"
"What is the etiology of Endemic Typhus? Rickettsia typhi"
"What is the treatment for all disorders caused by Rickettsia spp.? Doxycycline"
"Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is a zoonotic infection caused by Rickettsia rickettsii that presents with a rash that typically starts at the wrists and ankles and then spreads to the trunk, palms and soles"
"Q Fever is a Rickettsial-like disease that can be obtained via aerosolized spores released from tick feces or cattle placenta"
"Q Fever is a Rickettsial-like disorder caused by Coxiella burnetti that presents as pneumonia"
"Which serotypes of Chlamydia trachomatis are associated with Neonatal Conjunctivitis? D-K"
"Mucormycosis is an opportunistic fungal infection that is mostly seen in ketoacidotic diabetic and leukemic patients"
"Mucormycosis is an opportunistic fungal infection that presents with rhinocerebral and frontal lobe abscesses"
"Mucormycosis is an opportunistic fungal infection that presents with headache, facial pain, and a black necrotic eschar on the face"
"Mucor spp. is a species of opportunistic fungus that presents as nonseptate hyphae branching at wide angles"
"What is the treatment for Pneumocystis jirovecii? TMP-SMX or Pentamidine"
"Toxoplasmosis is a CNS protozoal infection that presents with brain abscesses in HIV patients; seen as ring-enhancing brain lesions on CT/MRI"
"Which subspecies of Trypanosoma brucei is from East Africa? Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense"
"Which subspecies of Trypanosoma brucei is from West Africa? Trypanosoma brucei gambiense"
"African Sleeping Sickness is a CNS protozoal infection caused by Trypanosoma brucei subspecies that is diagnosed by a blood smear"
"Trypanosoma cruzi::protozoa is the etiology of Chagas Disease"
"Chagas Disease is a visceral protozoal infection that presents with dilated cardiomyopathy, mega-colon and mega-esophagus"
"Where (geographically) does Chagas Disease predominantly occur? South America"
"How is Chagas Disease (Trypanosoma cruzi) transmitted? Reduviid bug (aka the \kissing bug\\") feces\""
"Chagas Disease is a visceral protozoal infection that is diagnosed by the visualization of Trypanosoma cruzi on a peripheral blood smear"
"What is the most common etiology of Mononucleosis? EBV"
"Mononucleosis is a complication of EBV infection that presents with fever, hepatosplenomegaly, pharyngitis and lymphadenopathy"
"Mononucleosis is a disease caused by EBV that is also commonly referred to as \kissing disease\\" as it is often seen in teens and young adults\""
"Where is EBV latent? B cells"
"Which receptor does EBV use to enter B cells? CD21 (C3d; CR2)"
"EBV is a Herpesvirus that can give rise to atypical lymphocytes (Downey Cells) on a peripheral blood smear"
"Which diagnostic test is used to detect EBV infection? Monospot Test"
"The Monospot Test is a diagnostic test that detects the heterophile antibodies seen in EBV infection via agglutination of sheep or horse RBCs"
"Which Herpesvirus is associated with Hodgkin's Lymphoma? EBV"
"Which Herpesvirus is associated with endemic Burkitt Lymphoma? EBV"
"Which Herpesvirus is associated with Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma? EBV"
"Which Herpesvirus causes Mononucleosis with a negative Monospot test? CMV"
"Which Herpesvirus is associated with causing retinitis in immunocompromised patients? CMV"
"Which Herpesvirus is associated with characteristic Owl's Eye inclusions in infected cells? CMV"
"CMV is a Herpesvirus that is latent in mononuclear cells"
"The Tzanck smear is a diagnostic test used to identify HSV or VZV through a smear of an opened skin vesicle"
"Which serological antigen from EBV is produced if the infection is active and productive? Viral Capsid Antigen (VCA)"
"Which serological antigen from EBV is seen in latent infection? Epstein-Barr Nuclear Antigen (EBNA)"
"Epstein-Barr Nuclear Antigen (EBNA) is a serological antigen from EBV that contributes to Hodgkin's or Burkitt's Lymphoma"
"Hairy Leukoplakia is a dermatological infection caused by EBV that commonly presents on the lateral tongue"
"CMV is a Herpesvirus that causes retinitis in HIV patients that presents with cotton-wool spots on funduscopy"
"Esophagitis and Colitis are GI complications that are often seen alongside CMV Retinitis in immunosuppressed patients"
"What CD4+ cell count is associated with CMV retinitis in HIV patients? < 50 cells/mm3"
"Primary B-cell CNS Lymphoma is a Lymphoma often associated with EBV that can present as focal/solitary lesions, thereby differentiating it from Toxoplasmosis"
"Squamous Cell Carcinoma is a cancer caused by HPV in HIV patients that often presents at the anus (in MSMs) or the cervix"
"CMV is a Herpesvirus that causes interstitial pneumonia in HIV patients"
"Where on the body is Staphylococcus epidermidis found? Skin"
"What food source is associated with Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning? Meats; Mayonnaise; Custard (meats and cream based food)"
"Staphylococcus aureus; Staphylococcus epidermidis::Which strains of bacteria (2) are associated with Osteomyelitis in patients that have received a prosthetic joint replacement"
"Streptococcus agalactiae, Escherichia coli, and Listeria monocytogenes are bacteria that all cause meningitis in neonates"
"How is CMV transmitted? Sexual contact; Organ transplant; Vertically through placenta"
"Rubella, Toxoplasma, and CMV are 3 ToRCHeS infections that are associated with a \blueberry muffin\\" rash\""
"Which HPV strains cause Condyloma Acuminata? HPV6; HPV11"
"Condyloma Acuminata is an STD caused by HPV6 or HPV11 that presents with anogenital warts and koilocytes::what cellular pathology"
"Neisseria gonorrhoeae STI that presents with urethritis, cervicitis, prostatitis and a white, creamy purulent discharge"
"What is the etiology of Syphilis? Treponema pallidum"
"Which 2 bacteria are the most common causes of Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)? Chlamydia trachomatis (subacute; often undiagnosed); Neisseria gonorrhoeae (acute)"
"Which bacteria often causes subacute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) and hence often goes undiagnosed? Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes D-K"
"Which bacteria often causes acute Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID)? Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"Pelvic Inflammatory Disease (PID) is a genitourinary disorder caused by Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae that presents with purulent cervical discharge"
"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a gram-negative nosocomial bacterial infection that has respiratory therapy equipment as a risk factor"
"Which Herpesvirus is associated with infecting an organ transplant recipient? CMV"
"Pseudomembranous colitis is a GI complication of ampicillin use that results from overgrowth of Clostridioides difficile in the GI tract"
"Which 3rd generation Cephalosporin is used to treat meningitis and gonorrhea? Ceftriaxone"
"How do Cephalosporin antibiotics influence the nephrotoxicity of Aminoglycosides? Increase"
"Which bacterial ribosomal subunit is targeted by Chloramphenicol? 50S"
"Which bacterial ribosomal subunit is targeted by Linezolid? 50S"
"What is the primary clinical use of Tetracycline antibiotics? Borrelia burgdorferi Mycoplasma pneumoniae Intracellular bugs (Rickettsia, Chlamydiae)"
"Tetracyclines are a class of protein synthesis inhibiting antibiotics that are effective against intracellular organisms by virtue of their ability to accumulate intracellularly"
"What is the MOA of Chloramphenicol? Blocks peptidyltransferase at the 50S ribosomal subunit"
"Anemia and Aplastic Anemia::2 are dose-dependent/independent hematological complications of Chloramphenicol use"
"Gray Baby Syndrome is a complication of Chloramphenicol use in premature infants as they lack hepatic UDP-Glucuronyl Transferase"
"What is the mechanism of Chloramphenicol resistance? Plasmid-encoded acetyltransferases that inactivate the drug"
"Clindamycin is a protein synthesis inhibiting antibiotic that is known to treat anaerobic infections above the diaphragm (e.g. aspiration pneumonia, lung abscesses, oral infections)"
"Pseudomembranous colitis is a possible complication of Clindamycin use due to resultant Clostridioides difficile overgrowth"
"Fluoroquinolones are a class of antibiotics that can possibly cause leg cramps and myalgias along with cartilage damage"
"The treatment for Neisseria gonorrhoeae is Ceftriaxone + azithromycin or doxycycline for possible chlamydia infection"
"What is the treatment for Chagas Disease (Trypanosoma cruzi)? Nifurtimox, Benznidazole"
"Which viral enzyme monophosphorylates Acyclovir/Famciclovir/Valacyclovir, thereby activating it? Thymidine kinase"
"What is the mechanism of resistance to Acyclovir/Famciclovir/Valacyclovir? Mutated/Absent Thymidine Kinase"
"Foscarnet is an antiviral agent that acts as a viral DNA polymerase inhibitor by binding to the pyrophosphate-binding site of the enzyme"
"What is the treatment for CMV retinitis in immunocompromised patients when Ganciclovir fails? Foscarnet or Cidofovir"
"What is the treatment for Acyclovir-resistant HSV? Foscarnet or Cidofovir"
"What is the MOA of Cidofovir? Preferential direct inhibition of viral DNA polymerase"
"Fluoroquinolones are a class of antibiotics that are avoided in pregnancy as they cause cartilage damage"
"Chloramphenicol is an antibiotic that is avoided in pregnancy as it causes \Gray Baby\\" Syndrome\""
"Which complement deficiency is associated with increased risk for Neisseria infection? C5b-C9 (terminal complement deficiency - membrane attack complex)"
"Aplasia cutis is a possible teratogenic complication of methimazole if given in the first trimester"
"Agranulocytosis and Aplastic Anemia are rare hematological complications of propylthiouracil and methimazole use"
"What drug used to treat hyperthyroidism is associated with hepatotoxicity? Propylthiouracil"
"On which day after fertilization is the zygote formed? 1"
"On which days following fertilization is the morula formed? 3-4"
"On which days following fertilization is the blastocyst formed? 4-5"
"On which days following fertilization does implantation occur? 6-10"
"During which week of gestation is the bilaminar disc (of epiblast and hypoblast) formed? Week 2"
"During which week of gestation is the trilaminar disc formed? 3"
"During which week of gestation does gastrulation occur? 3"
"During which week of gestation does the primitive streak appear? 3"
"What is the embryonic origin of the spinal cord? Neural tube (neuroectoderm)"
"What is the embryonic origin of the Alveoli, epithelium of trachea / bronchi? Endoderm"
"Which antacid is associated with hyporeflexia, hypotension and cardiac arrest if overused? Magnesium hydroxide"
"Conditions that cause vomiting include infection, medication, vestibular dysfunction, and chemoradiation"
"The nucleus tractus solitarius, also known as the vomiting center (located in the medulla) receives main inputs from: 1. GI tract 2. Vestibular system 3. Area postrema (chemoreceptor trigger zone)"
"The nucleus tractus solitarius projects neurons to other medullary nuclei to coordinate the vomiting response"
"The GI tract directly communicates with the nucleus tractus solitarius via the vagus nerve (CN X)"
"GI irritation, due to infection, chemotherapy, or distension, causes mucosal serotonin release"
"Serotonin activates 5-HT3 receptors on the vagal afferents, which relay their impulse to the nucleus tractus solitarius"
"The vestibular system communicates directly with the nucleus tractus solitarius via the vestibulocochlear nerve (CN VIII)"
"The vestibular system is responsible for vertigo and motion sickness (vestibular nausea)"
"The area postrema (chemoreceptor trigger zone) is located adjacent to the nucleus tractus solitarius in the 4th ventricle"
"The area postrema (chemoreceptor trigger zone) responds to emetogenic substances (e.g. chemotherapeutic agents)"
"Ondansetron antagonizes the 5-HT3 receptor on vagal afferents in the GI tract"
"Ondansetron is used to treat chemotherapy or post-operative induced nausea and vomiting"
"Ondansetron may cause constipation at the gut and headache/dizziness at the head as possible side effects"
"Ondansetron can prolong the QT interval and induce torsades"
"Ondansetron may cause serotonin syndrome, which presents with symptoms including rigidity, tremor, hyperthermia, and confusion"
"The vestibular system contains H1 histamine receptors, which are coupled to Gq"
"Diphenhydramine and meclizine (1st generation H1 receptor blockers) may cause significant sedation and have significant anti-muscarinic properties"
"The vestibular system contains M1 muscarinic receptors"
"Scopolamine is a(n) muscarinic (M1) antagonist that treats vestibular nausea (motion sickness)"
"Motion sickness (vestibular nausea) is treated with 1st generation anti-histamines (diphenhydramine, meclizine) and scopolamine"
"Metoclopramide antagonizes D2 receptors in the area postrema (treats chemotherapy induced vomiting)"
"Metoclopramide has upper GI prokinetic effects, making it useful for treatment of delayed gastric emptying due to post-surgical disorders and diabetic gastroparesis"
"Metoclopramide (D2 antagonist) is contraindicated in patients with small bowel obstruction"
"Metoclopramide can cause diarrhea as a result of its prokinetic effects"
"Side effects of metoclopramide include drowsiness and depression as a result of central D2 blockade"
"Side effects of metoclopramide include extrapyramidal effects such as dystonia, akathisia, and parkinsonian features as a result of central D2 blockade"
"Chronic use of metoclopramide may lead to tardive dyskinesia, especially in the elderly"
"Metoclopramide may cause neuroleptic malignant syndrome, which presents with symptoms including fever, rigidity, mental status changes, autonomic instability, and rhabdomyolysis"
"Metoclopramide may cause elevated prolactin levels, which can cause galactorrhea, impotence, gynecomastia, and menstrual disorders"
"Metoclopramide can cause QT prolongation and induce torsades"
"The area postrema (chemoreceptor trigger zone) contains neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors which are activated by substance P"
"Aprepitant antagonizes NK1 receptors in the area postrema, which is used to treat chemotherapy-induced vomiting"
"Which anti-emetic(s) should be used to treat a patient with nausea/vomiting due to GI irritation? 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, such as ondansetron"
"Which anti-emetic(s) should be used to treat a patient with nausea/vomiting due to motion sickness? 1. H1 receptor blockers, such as diphenhydramine and meclizine 2. M1 receptor blockers, such as scopolamine "
"Which anti-emetic(s) should be used to treat a patient with nausea/vomiting due to emetogenic substances in the blood/CNS? 1. D2 receptor blockers, such as metoclopramide 2. NK1 receptor blockers, such as aprepitant "
"Histamine, from ECL cells, activates H2 receptors (coupled to Gs) on the basolateral membrane of parietal cells"
"Vagal stimulation is a potent direct activator of parietal cells (H+ secretion) via binding of the neurotransmitter ACh to M3 receptors"
"What drug class do cimetidine, ranitidine, famotidine, and nizatidine belong to? H2 receptor antagonists"
"By what mechanisms can H+ secretion still occur in a patient on H2 receptor blockers? Direct stimulation of parietal cells by vagal stimulation and gastrin stimulation"
"H2 receptor antagonists are especially effective at reducing nocturnal secretion of acid, however, they only have modest impact on meal-stimulated secretion of acid"
"H2 receptor antagonists (e.g. cimetidine) may be used to treat GERD and peptic ulcers, although PPIs are the first line treatment"
"The H2 receptor antagonist cimetidine is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 and therefore has multiple drug interactions"
"The H2 receptor antagonist cimetidine has many anti-androgenic effects (e.g. gynecomastia, impotence, elevated prolactin levels)"
"Both cimetidine and ranitidine decrease renal excretion of creatinine"
"Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) irreversibly::reversibly or irreversibly inhibit the H+/K+-ATPase pump, which is the final common pathway for H+ secretion"
"Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are effective at reducing both nocturnal and meal-stimulated secretion of acid and thus suppress H+ secretion to a greater extent than H2 receptor blockers"
"What is the first line treatment for a patient with Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome? Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs)"
"What is the first line treatment for a patient with H. pylori infection? Triple therapy with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) + clarithromycin + amoxicillin or metronidazole"
"One adverse effect of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) is increased risk for Clostridioides difficile infection (2-3x increased risk)"
"In addition to increased risk for C. difficile infection, patients on proton pump inhibitors are also at increased risk for pneumonia"
"Proton pump inhibitors decrease the absorption of divalent cations (Ca2+, Mg2+, and Fe2+), which require an acidic environment"
"Reduced calcium absorption as a result of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) increases risk of worsening osteoporosis (e.g. increased osteoporotic hip fractures)"
"Decreased magnesium absorption as a result of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may cause hypomagnesemia"
"When proton pump inhibitors are unable to control gastric acid secretion, octreotide (a long acting somatostatin analog) may be of use in treating gastrinomas"
"The mechanism of action of laxatives is via a change in the consistency of feces"
"Osmotic laxatives are non-absorbable substances that draw water into the intestinal lumen, causing distention and peristalsis"
"Magnesium hydroxide and magnesium citrate are both examples of osmotic laxatives"
"Polyethylene glycol (PEG) is a non-absorbable sugar that acts as a(n) osmotic laxative"
"Lactulose is a non-absorbable sugar that acts as a(n) osmotic laxative"
"In addition to its use as an osmotic laxative, lactulose may be used in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy"
"What is the mechanism of action by which lactulose treats hepatic encephalopathy? Lactulose is metabolized into acidic metabolites, which convert NH3 to NH4+ (trapped in intestinal lumen and excreted)"
"Rifaximin is a poorly absorbed antibiotic that eradicates ammonia producing intestinal bacteria and thus treats hepatic encephalopathy"
"Two main side effects of osmotic laxatives include diarrhea and dehydration"
"Psyllium is a(n) bulk-forming laxative"
"Stool softeners are surfactant agents that faciliate the penetration of stool by water and lipids"
"Docusate is used medically as a(n) stool softener"
"Senna and Bisacodyl are cathartic (stimulant) agents that acts via stimulation of the enteric nervous system and increased colonic secretions"
"Chronic use of senna causes brown pigmentation of the colon, known as melanosis coli"
"Opioid agonists (e.g. diphenoxylate, loperamide) treat diarrhea by activating μ-opioid receptors in the GI tract"
"Loperamide is a(n) μ-opioid agonist that does not cross the BBB, therefore there is no analgesia and low potential for addiction"
"Opioid agonists (e.g. loperamide) increase colonic phasic segmentation contractions, causing increased colonic transit time"
"Diphenoxylate is a(n) μ-opioid agonist that does cross the BBB, therefore it is combined with atropine to prevent abuse"
"A patient is more likely to get addicted to which anti-diarrheal μ-opioid agonist? Diphenoxylate; it crosses the BBB"
"Anti-diarrheal agents are contraindicated in patients with bloody diarrhea or fever"
"What GI side effect may be caused by opioid agonists? Constipation"
"VIPoma and carcinoid tumor both cause secretory diarrhea"
"Octreotide (a somatostatin analog) may be used to treat the secretory diarrhea caused by VIPoma and carcinoid syndrome"
"Metoclopramide has drug interactions with digoxin and diabetic agents"
"Which two anti-emetics can cause torsades as a possible side effect? Ondansetron and metoclopramide"
"Interferons are immunomodulatory cytokines that are released from virus infected host cells"
"Upregulation of interferon synthesis in infected cells is accomplished by interleukins"
"Interferon alpha may be used in the treatment of hepatitis B and C infections"
"Interferon alpha may be used in the treatment of neoplasms, including hairy cell leukemia and malignant melanoma"
"Interferon alpha may be used to treat Kaposi sarcoma caused by HHV-8"
"Interferon alpha may be used to treat condyloma accuminata caused by HPV"
"Interferon alpha may be used to treat renal cell carcinoma"
"Which hepatitis drug causes flu-like symptoms as a possible side effect? Interferon alpha"
"Chronic therapy of interferon alpha may result in neurotoxicity, causing mood disorders (e.g. depression) and confusion"
"Which hepatitis drug has myelosuppression as a possible side effect? Interferon alpha"
"Which type of interferon is associated with drug-induced lupus? Interferon alpha"
"Interferon β may be used to treat multiple sclerosis"
"Interferon gamma may be used to treat chronic granulomatous disease (CGD)"
"What two factors determine if a patient with hepatitis C infection should be treated & what the treatment regimen should be? HCV genotype and the stage of liver disease (i.e. liver fibrosis)"
"All patients with virologic evidence of chronic HCV infection should be considered for treatment, except those with limited life expectancy"
"The goal of treatment of HCV is to achieve a(n) sustained virologic response (SVR), which is the inability to detect HCV RNA by PCR for 6 months after stopping treatment"
"What is the traditional standard treatment for hepatitis C? Once weekly pegylated-interferon alpha with daily oral ribavirin::specific"
"Ribavirin is a(n) guanosine nucleoside analog"
"Ribavirin must be phosphorylated three times::specific by intracellular enzymes to reach its activated nucleotide form"
"A major side effect of ribavirin is that it may cause dose-dependent hemolytic anemia (10-20% of patients)"
"Ribavirin is contraindicated in pregnant women due to its teratogenic effects"
"In addition to hepatitis C, what other virus is ribavirin classically used to treat? respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)"
"Sofosbuvir is a nucleotide analog that inhibits the HCV NS5B RNA-dependent RNA polymerase"
"Adverse effects associated with sofosbuvir include fatigue and nausea"
"Sofosbuvir and simeprevir are not used as monotherapies for HCV, but rather as part of a regimen including ribavirin +/- pegylated-interferon alpha"
"Simeprevir is a NS3/4A protease inhibitor that may be used for the treatment of hepatitis C genotype 1"
"Adverse effects of simeprevir include photosensitivity and rash"
"Simeprevir is a(n) inhibitor of cytochrome P450 and thus may have many drug interactions"
"Second generation NS3/NS4A protease inhibitors and NS5A inhibitors are under clinical investigation to develop HCV treatment regimens that do not require interferon/ribavirin administration"
"Which two NRTIs are used to treat hepatitis B? lamivudine and tenofovir"
"What is the traditional standard treatment for hepatitis B? Interferon alpha + lamivudine"
"Misoprostol is a synthetic analog of ProstoGlandin E1"
"Misoprostol promotes increased production and secretion of a gastric mucous barrier and decreased acid production"
"Misoprostol is a PGE1 analog that may be used to prevent NSAID-induced peptic ulcers"
"Misoprostol is contraindicated in women of childbearing potential due to its abortifacient effects"
"Misoprostol is not used very often due to its ability to cause diarrhea as a side effect"
"Peptide and Protein Hormone Synthesis: Translation of a preprohormone begins in the cytoplasm with a signal peptide at the N terminus"
"In the first step of hormone synthesis, preprohormone is synthesized in the cytosol, directed by specific mRNA"
"All steroid hormones are derivatives of cholesterol"
"Amine hormones are derivatives of the amino acid tyrosine"
"Amine hormones include thyroid hormones and catecholamines (epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine)"
"When regulating hormone secretion via negative feedback, some feature of hormone action, directly or indirectly, inhibits further secretion of the hormone"
"When regulating hormone secretion via positive feedback, some feature of hormone action causes more secretion of the hormone"
"Sensitivity is defined as the hormone concentration that produces 50% of the maximal response"
"If more hormone is required to produce 50% of the maximal response, then there has been a(n) decrease in sensitivity of the target tissue, and vice versa"
"The hormone sensitivity (responsiveness) of a target tissue may be changed in two ways: 1. Change the number of receptors 2. Change the affinity of receptors"
"Down-regulation is a mechanism in which a hormone decreases the number or affinity of its receptors in a target tissue"
"Up-regulation is a mechanism in which a hormone increases the number or affinity of its receptors in a target tissue"
"G proteins have three::# subunits"
"The alpha subunit of G proteins has intrinsic GTPase activity and may bind GDP (inactive) or GTP (active)"
"Guanine nucleotide releasing factors (GRFs) facilitate dissociation of GDP so that GTP can bind more rapidly, increasing the rate of G protein activation"
"GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) facilitate hydrolysis of GTP, decreasing the rate of G protein activation"
"In the first step of the adenylyl cyclase and phospholipase C mechanism of signaling, binding of hormone to its receptor causes release of GDP from its α subunit (αs, αi, or aq) and replacement by GTP"
"In the adenylyl cyclase mechanism of cellular signaling, the αs-GTP complex activates adenylyl cyclase, which then catalyzes the conversion of ATP to cAMP"
"In the adenylyl cyclase mechanism of cellular signaling, the second messenger cAMP activates protein kinase A, which then phosphorylates specific proteins to produce physiologic actions"
"After its use as a second messenger in the adenylyl cyclase signaling pathway, cAMP is degraded to 5'-AMP by phosphodiesterase"
"In the phospholipase C mechanism of cellular signaling, the αq-GTP complex activates phospholipase C, which then catalyzes the liberation of DAG and IP3 from PIP2"
"In the phospholipase C mechanism of cellular signaling, the IP3 generated from PIP2 causes release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores in the endoplasmic or sarcoplasmic reticulum"
"In the phospholipase C mechanism of cellular signaling, Ca2+ and diacylglycerol (DAG) activate protein kinase C, which phosphorylates specific proteins to produce physiologic actions"
"What hormone acts through a receptor guanylyl cyclase? Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP)"
"Binding of atrial natriuretic peptide to its receptor guanylyl cyclase causes conversion of GTP to cGMP"
"Newly synthesized cGMP (from guanylyl cyclase activity) activates protein kinase G, which phosphorylates specific proteins responsible for physiologic actions"
"What hormone/chemical acts through a cytosolic guanylyl cyclase? Nitric Oxide"
"NO synthase cleaves the amino acid arginine into citrulline and nitric oxide"
"Once nitric oxide diffuses into muscle cells, it activates soluble (cytosolic) guanylyl cyclase, which converts GTP to cGMP"
"What is the difference between the binding sites of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and nitric oxide (NO) to guanylyl cyclase receptors? - ANP binds to a receptor guanylyl cyclase - NO binds to a cytoplasmic guanylyl cyclase"
"Which two amino acids do protein kinase A and protein kinase C phosphorylate to continue the signaling cascade? Serine & threonine"
"Receptor tyrosine kinases have intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity within the receptor molecule"
"Receptor-associated tyrosine kinases do not have intrinsic kinase activity, but rather associate non-covalently with proteins that do (e.g. JAK)"
"One type of receptor tyrosine kinase is a(n) monomer, which dimerizes and auto-phosphorylates upon binding of a hormone or ligand"
"One type of receptor tyrosine kinase is a(n) dimer, which auto-phosphorylates upon binding of a hormone or ligand"
"Receptor-associated tyrosine kinases are non-covalently associated with a tyrosine kinase, such as JAK"
"Targets of JAK (tyrosine kinase associated-receptor pathway) include STATs, which cause transcription of new mRNAs and new protein synthesis"
"What type of receptor do growth hormones use for their signaling pathways? Receptor associated tyrosine kinases"
"How do the receptors bound by steroid and thyroid hormones differ from the receptors bound by peptide hormones? Peptide hormones bind extracellular receptors"
"Relative to time, how do peptide hormones differ from steroid hormones?  - Steroid hormones act slowly (taking hours) - Peptide hormones act quickly (within minutes) "
"Steroid hormone-receptor dimers are transcription factors that bind to steroid-response elements (SREs) of DNA and initiate transcription"
"What is the end effect of steroid hormones? Synthesis of new proteins"
"The pituitary gland, which also is called the hypophysis, consists of an anterior and posterior lobe"
"The hypothalamus is connected to the pituitary gland by a thin stalk called the infundibulum"
"The connections between the hypothalamus and the posterior pituitary are neural only"
"The posterior pituitary is a collection of nerve axons whose cell bodies are located in hypothalamic nuclei"
"The anterior lobe of the pituitary gland is primarily composed of endocrine cells"
"The hypothalamus and anterior pituitary are linked directly by the hypothalamic-hypophysial portal system"
"Hypothalamic hormones stimulate or inhibit the release of anterior pituitary hormones"
"The β subunits of the anterior pituitary hormones TSH, FSH, and LH are different and are responsible for the unique biologic activity of each hormone"
"The ACTH family of hormones includes: 1. ACTH 2. Melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) 3. Gamma and β-lipotropin 4. β-endorphin"
"Melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) is found in POMC and its fragments, thus, increased levels of POMC and ACTH may lead to skin/mucosal pigmentation (e.g. Addison disease)"
"Growth hormone is synthesized in the somatotrophs::cell type of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland"
"At puberty, there is an enormous secretory burst of growth hormone induced by estrogen (females) or testosterone (males)"
"What is the effect of sleep on growth hormone secretion? Increased"
"What is the effect of somatostatin on growth hormone secretion? Decreased"
"The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) receptor has tyrosine kinase activity, similar to the insulin receptor"
"How does growth hormone affect protein synthesis and lean body mass? Increased"
"What direct action does growth hormone have on production of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)? Increased"
"Growth hormone/IGF-1 alters cartilage metabolism to increase linear bone growth"
"Failure to grow, short stature, mild obesity, and delayed puberty is associated with what hormone deficiency? Growth hormone deficiency"
"The most important of the somatomedins is somatomedin C, also known as IGF-1"
"Prolactin is synthesized by lactotrophs, which represent approximately 15% of the tissue in the anterior pituitary"
"Prolactin secretion is tonically inhibited by dopamine"
"What is the effect of bromocriptine (a dopamine agonist) on prolactin secretion? Decreased"
"Prolactin stimulates milk production in the breast by inducing synthesis of milk components including casein and lactose"
"Prolactin stimulates breast development in a supportive role with estrogen"
"What effect does prolactin have on ovulation and spermatogenesis? Decreased / Inhibition"
"Hypothalamic destruction or hypothalamic-hypophysial tract disruption result in prolactin excess by causing loss of tonic inhibition::process by dopamine"
"How can prolactin excess be treated? Dopamine agonists (e.g. bromocriptine)"
"What two hormones are secreted by the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland? ADH and oxytocin"
"Both ADH and oxytocin are neuropeptides, synthesized in hypothalamic neurons and secreted from nerve terminals in the posterior pituitary"
"Oxytocin is packaged with neurophysin I"
"The cell bodies of ADH-secreting neurons originate primarily in the supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus"
"Hypovolemia or volume contraction is another potent stimulus for ADH secretion"
"What is the effect on ADH secretion if a patient has low volume AND low osmolarity? Volume trumps osmolarity and ADH is secreted"
"Through which secondary messenger(s) does the ADH-bound V2 receptor propagate its signal? cAMP"
"The receptor for ADH on vascular smooth muscle is a(n) V1 receptor"
"Through which secondary messenger(s) does the ADH-bound V1 receptor propagate its signal? IP3/Ca2+"
"What is the end result of ADH binding to V1 receptors on vascular smooth muscle? Contraction of vascular smooth muscle"
"Central diabetes insipidus is caused by failure of the posterior pituitary to secrete ADH"
"Which ADH disorder is characterized by low levels of circulating ADH and thus large volumes of dilute urine? central diabetes insipidus (nephrogenic has high ADH levels)"
"Central diabetes insipidus is treated with a(n) ADH analogue, such as dDAVP (desmopressin)"
"Which type of diabetes insipidus is characterized by an inability of the posterior pituitary to secrete ADH? Central diabetes insipidus"
"Which type of diabetes insipidus is characterized by elevated levels of ADH? Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus"
"Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is treated with thiazide diuretics"
"What endocrine pathology is treated with demeclocycline? SIADH"
"What is the major stimulus for oxytocin secretion? Suckling of the breast"
"What conditioned responses may stimulate oxytocin secretion? Sight, sound, or smell of an infant"
"Oxytocin is secreted in response to dilation of the cervix during labor or orgasm"
"Oxytocin causes contraction of myoepithelial cells in the breast, forcing milk stored in the mammary alveoli into the ducts for ejection"
"Oxytocin is a hormone that may be used to induce labor and reduce postpartum bleeding"
"Cretinism is a condition of severely stunted physical and mental growth due to untreated congenital deficiency of thyroid hormones"
"Thyroid hormones are synthesized by the follicular epithelial cells of the thyroid gland"
"In the first step of thyroid hormone synthesis, thyroglobulin is synthesized from tyrosine in the thyroid follicular cells"
"If there are low levels of iodine (I-), the activity of the Na+-I- cotransport increases, and vice versa"
"Thyroid peroxidase and deiodinase may be inhibited by propylthiouracil (PTU), which is used therapeutically for the treatment of hyperthyroidism"
"Thyroperoxidase is inhibited by Methimazole and PTU"
"High levels of I- inhibit organification of I2, and therefore inhibit synthesis of thyroid hormones (Wolff-Chaikoff effect)"
"After organification of I2, coupling between two molecules of DIT may combine to form thyroxine (T4)"
"After organification of I2, coupling between a molecule of MIT and a molecule of DIT may combine to form triiodothyronine (T3)"
"After iodinated thyroglobulin is synthesized, it is stored in the follicular lumen as colloid until the thyroid gland is stimulated to secrete thyroid hormones"
"What three steps does thyroid peroxidase catalyze during the synthesis of thyroid hormones?  1. Oxidation (I- to I2) 2. Organification (of I2 into MIT and DIT) 3. Coupling (of MIT and DIT into T3 and T4)"
"When the thyroid gland is stimulated, iodinated thyroglobulin is endocytosed into the follicular epithelial cells"
"After release from iodinated thyroglobulin, T4 and T3 enter the systemic circulation"
"After release from iodinated thyroglobulin, MIT and DIT are deiodinated by the enzyme thyroid deiodinase, reproducing I- and tyrosine"
"A patient with thyroid deiodinase deficiency would mimic which mineral deficiency? Iodine deficiency, due to inability recycle iodine"
"In the circulation, most of the T3 and T4 is bound to thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG)"
"The T3 resin uptake test may be used to indirectly assess circulating levels of TBG"
"What is the result of pregnancy on a T3 resin uptake test? Resin uptake is decreased"
"Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) secretion is decreased in response to free T3/T4"
"Through which secondary messenger(s) does TSH exert its actions on the thyroid gland? cAMP"
"One role of TSH on the thyroid gland is to increase both synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormones by the follicular cells"
"Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) has a trophic effect on the thyroid gland, thus, chronic elevation of TSH causes hypertrophy/hyperplasia of the thyroid gland"
"Which thyroid disorder is associated with high concentrations of Thyrotropin receptor antibodies (TRAb)? Graves disease"
"Thyroid hormone increases the processes of glycogenolysis, gluconeogenesis, proteolysis, and lipolysis, all of which may provide sources of ATP"
"What is the effect of thyroid hormone on the cardiovascular and respiratory systems? Increased activity"
"Thyroid hormone works synergistically with growth hormone and somatomedins to promote bone formation"
"Thyroid hormones stimulate bone maturation as a result of ossification and fusion of the growth plates"
"Hypothyroidism in the perinatal period causes irreversible mental retardation (cretinism)"
"In adulthood, which thyroid disorder is associated with listlessness, slowed speech, somnolence, impaired memory, and decreased mental capacity? hypothyroidism"
"A useful adjunct therapy for hyperthyroidism is a(n) β-adrenergic blocking agent, such as propranolol"
"Hyperthyroidism may be treated surgically via thyroidectomy or with the drug propylthiouracil (PTU), which inhibits both thyroid peroxidase and deiodinase"
"In which disorder (hyper- or hypothyroidism) may a patient present with a goiter? Both!"
"Hypothyroidism may be treated with thyroid hormone replacement therapy (e.g. levothyroxine, triiodothyronine)"
"The adrenal medulla is of neural crest origin"
"The zona glomerulosa secretes mineralocorticoids, such as aldosterone"
"The zona fasciculata secretes glucocorticoids, such as cortisol"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of adrenocortical hormones? Cholesterol desmolase"
"The major glucocorticoid produced in humans is cortisol (hydrocortisone)"
"The major mineralocorticoid produced in humans is aldosterone"
"Pregnenolone may be converted to progesterone via the enzyme 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase"
"11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC) may be converted to corticosterone via the enzyme 11β-hydroxylase"
"Corticosterone may be converted to aldosterone via the enzyme aldosterone synthase"
"The zona glomerulosa normally cannot produce glucocorticoids because it lacks the enzyme 17α-hydroxylase"
"Can mineralocorticoids still be produced if the mineralocorticoid pathway is blocked below the level of DOC (i.e. absence of 11β-hydroxylase or aldosterone synthase)? Yes, 11-deoxycorticosterone (DOC) and corticosterone both have mineralocorticoid activity"
"Can mineralocorticoids still be produced if the mineralocorticoid pathway is blocked above the level of DOC (i.e. absence of 21β-hydroxylase)? No"
"Pregnenolone may be converted to 17-hydroxypregnenolone via the enzyme 17α-hydroxylase"
"17-hydroxypregnenolone may be converted to 17-hydroxyprogesterone via the enzyme 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase"
"11-deoxycortisol may be converted to cortisol via the enzyme 11β-hydroxylase"
"Can glucocorticosteroids still be produced if there is absence of 17α-hydroxylase? Yes, the zona fasciculata can still produce corticosterone, which has glucocorticoid activity"
"Can glucocorticosteroids still be produced if there is absence of cholesterol desmolase, 21β-hydroxylase, 11β-hydroxylase, or 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase? No, a lack of any of these enzymes would block the synthesis of both corticosterone AND cortisol"
"Adrenal androgens, such as DHEA and androstenedione, have a(n) ketone group at C-17 and are excreted as 17-ketosteroids in the urine"
"Which enzyme is unique to the zona glomerulosa and thus the mineralocorticoid synthesis pathway? Aldosterone synthase"
"Which enzymes are unique to the zona fasciculata/reticularis and thus the glucocorticoid and androgen synthesis pathways? 17α-hydroxylase and 17,20-lyase::2"
"21-carbon steroids include both the mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids (progesterone, deoxycorticosterone, aldosterone, and cortisol)"
"19-carbon steroids, such as DHEA and androstenedione, have androgenic activity and are precursors to estrogen"
"18-carbon steroids have estrogenic activity"
"Metyrapone is a drug that inhibits glucocorticoid biosynthesis via inhibition of the enzyme 11β-hydroxylase"
"Cortisol levels are highest just before awakening and lowest in the evening"
"Which zones of the adrenal cortex does ACTH act on to increase steroid hormone synthesis? All three zones :)"
"ACTH increases steroid hormone synthesis via stimulation of the enzyme cholesterol desmolase, thus increasing the conversion of cholesterol to pregnenolone"
"Long-term effects of ACTH include up-regulation of ACTH receptors, thus increasing the sensitivity of the adrenal cortex"
"Through which secondary messenger(s) does ACTH exert its actions on the adrenal cortex? cAMP"
"How does cortisol affect secretion of CRH from the hypothalamus? Inhibits secretion, both directly and indirectly"
"How does cortisol affect secretion of ACTH from the anterior pituitary? Inhibits secretion, directly"
"The dexamethasone suppression test is useful in patients with hypercortisolism::broad issue"
"What is the result of a dexamethasone suppression test if the cause of hypercortisolism is an adrenal cortical tumor? Neither low nor high dose dexamethasone suppresses cortisol secretion"
"What is the effect of somatostatin and opioids on ACTH secretion? Decreased"
"Aldosterone secretion (from the zona glomerulosa) is under tonic, but not exclusive, control by ACTH"
"The primary regulation of aldosterone secretion occurs through changes in ECF volume (via the renin-angiotensin II-aldosterone system) and changes in serum potassium levels"
"Decreases in ECF volume (e.g. hemorrhage or decreased Na+) cause a decrease in renal perfusion pressure, which in turn increases secretion of the enzyme renin"
"Renin is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I in the plasma"
"Angiotensin I is converted to angiotensin II by the enzyme angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)"
"Angiotensin II acts on the zona glomerulosa to stimulate aldosterone synthesis via increased activity of the enzyme aldosterone synthase"
"To what receptor does angiotensin II bind? AT1 receptor"
"Through which secondary messenger(s) does the angiotensin II-bound AT1 receptor propagate its signal? IP3/Ca2+"
"How does hyperkalemia influence aldosterone secretion? Increased aldosterone secretion"
"Glucocorticoids are a potent stimulator for gluconeogenesis, thus they are essential for survival during fasting"
"Glucocorticoids may have anti-inflammatory effects by inducing the synthesis of lipocortin, an inhibitor of phospholipase A2"
"Glucocorticoids may have anti-inflammatory effects via the inhibition of the release of histamine and serotonin from mast cells and platelets"
"What is the effect of glucocorticoids on blood neutrophil levels? Increased (neutrophilia) due to decreased WBC adhesion"
"Do glucocorticoids cause an increase or decrease in eosinophils? Decrease"
"How do glucocorticoids suppress the immune response? By inhibiting production of IL-2 and subsequent T-cell proliferation"
"Cortisol (glucocorticoids) up-regulates α1 receptors on arterioles, increasing their sensitivity to catecholamines (i.e. norepinephrine and epinephrine)"
"Glucocorticoids (e.g. cortisol) are essential in maintaining vascular responsiveness to catecholamines"
"Glucocorticoids decrease bone formation by decreasing osteoblast activity"
"What is the effect of glucocorticoids on fibroblast activity? Decreased"
"Cortisol results in a(n) increased glomerular filtration rate (GFR)"
"Cortisol results in decreased REM sleep and increased awake time"
"Exogenous corticosteroids can cause candidiasis and reactivation of TB as a result of IL-2 inhibition"
"At high concentrations, cortisol can bind to mineralocorticoid (aldosterone) receptors"
"Mineralocorticoids (aldosterone) cause increased renal K+ secretion via action on the principal cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct"
"Mineralocorticoids (aldosterone) cause increased renal H+ secretion via action on the α-intercalated cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct"
"In females, the adrenal androgens are responsible for the development of pubic and axillary hair and for libido"
"In adrenogenital syndrome, the overproduction of adrenal androgens will result in increased urinary levels of 17-ketosteroids"
"What classes of steroid hormones are decreased in Addison disease? All three (glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids, and androgens)"
"What is the level of ACTH in Addison disease? Why? Increased; low cortisol levels stimulate ACTH secretion by negative feedback"
"What effect does Addison disease have on blood sugar levels? Hypoglycemia"
"Addison disease may present with decreased pubic/axillary hair and libido in females due to decreased levels of androgens"
"What is the treatment of Addison disease (primary adrenocortical insufficiency)? Replacement of glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids"
"Secondary adrenocortical insufficiency occurs when there is insufficient CRH (uncommon) or insufficient ACTH"
"Does secondary adrenocortical insufficiency present with hyperpigmentation? Why? No, ACTH levels are low therefore there is no increased melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH)"
"Does secondary adrenocortical insufficiency present with any of the following symptoms: hyperkalemia, metabolic acidosis, or hypotension? No, aldosterone levels are normal"
"Cushing syndrome is the result of chronic excess glucocorticoids by: 1. Adrenal gland hyperplasia 2. Pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids (most common) 3. ACTH secreting pituitary adenoma (Cushing disease) 4. Ectopic ACTH production (e.g. small cell lung carcinoma)"
"What clinical features are seen in Cushing syndrome/disease that are a result of increased androgen levels: Virilization (in women)"
"Conn syndrome, or primary hyperaldosteronism, is caused by a(n) aldosterone-secreting tumor"
"Conn syndrome presents with hypertension, hypokalemia, and metabolic alkalosis due to increased aldosterone levels"
"Treatment of Conn syndrome consists of administration of a(n) aldosterone antagonist, such as spironolactone, followed by removal of the aldosterone-secreting tumor"
"What clinical features are seen in 21β-hydroxylase deficiency that are a result of increased androgen levels in females? Masculinization (clitoral enlargement, early appearance of pubic/axillary hair)"
"In 21β-hydroxylase deficiency, there is an increased level of urinary 17-ketosteroids"
"What is the treatment for 21β-hydroxylase deficiency? Replacement therapy of both glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids"
"Aldosterone levels in 17α-hydroxylase deficiency are decreased due to mineralocorticoid excess (specifically DOC), which blocks RAAS."
"The alpha cells of the islets of Langerhans compose 20% of the islet and secrete glucagon"
"The synthesis of insulin is directed by a gene on chromosome 11"
"What may cause increased insulin levels and normal or decreased C-peptide levels? Exogenous insulin use"
"Once inside the pancreatic β-cell, glucose is phosphorylated by the enzyme glucokinase"
"In the pancreatic β cell, metabolism of glucose generates ATP, which may cause closure of select K+ channels with consequent membrane depolarization"
"Increased ATP:ADP ratio in the pancreatic β cell (as a result of glucose metabolism) causes ATP-sensitive K+ channels to close, causing membrane depolarization"
"Why is oral glucose a more powerful stimulant of insulin secretion than IV glucose? Oral glucose stimulates secretion of GIP and GLP-1"
"How do sulfonylurea drugs (e.g. tolbutamide, glyburde) cause an increased insulin secretion? By closing the ATP-dependent K+ channels, causing depolarization and subsequent insulin release"
"What effect does glucagon have on insulin secretion? Increased"
"What effect does somatostatin have on insulin secretion? Decreased"
"The β subunits of the insulin receptor have intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity"
"After phosphorylating intracellular proteins, the insulin receptor is internalized (via endocytosis) and either degraded, stored, or recycled"
"What effect does insulin have on insulin receptors in target tissues? Causes down-regulation"
"The number of insulin receptors is increased in starvation and decreased in obesity"
"What are the three locations that insulin acts on? Liver, muscle, and adipose tissue"
"Insulin increases glucose transport to muscle and adipose tissue by directing the insertion of the GLUT4 transporter into the cell membranes"
"Insulin decreases blood glucose concentration by promoting synthesis and storage of glycogen in the muscle and liver, while simultaneously inhibiting glycogenolysis"
"Insulin decreases blood glucose concentration by decreasing gluconeogenesis via increased production of fructose-2,6-bisphosphate"
"Insulin inhibits ketoacid formation in the liver because decreased fatty acid degradation provides less acetyl CoA substrate for ketoacid formation"
"Insulin stimulates amino acid uptake into cells and increases protein synthesis in muscles"
"Insulin results in increased K+ uptake into cells"
"What is the effect of insulin on blood K+ and amino acid concentration? Decreased (due to increased uptake into cells)"
"Does glucose cross the placenta? What about insulin? Glucose does; insulin does not"
"What are the blood concentration levels of amino acids and fatty acids in a diabetes mellitus patient? Increased"
"What is the blood concentration of K+ in a patient with diabetes mellitus? Increased (hyperkalemia) due to decreased K+ uptake into cells"
"Glucagon causes decreased fatty acid synthesis and increased lipolysis, which shunts substrates towards gluconeogenesis"
"What is the effect of glucagon on blood fatty acid and ketoacid concentration? Increased, due to increased lipolysis"
"What is the effect of glucagon on urea production? Increased, secondary to increased gluconeogenesis"
"Which nutrients (glucose, amino acids, fatty acids) stimulate release of somatostatins? All three :)"
"What is the effect of insulin on somatostatin secretion? Decreased"
"What is the effect of somatostatin on insulin and glucagon secretion? Decreased"
"What percent of total Ca2+ in the blood is bound to plasma protein? 40%"
"What percent of total Ca2+ in the blood is ultrafilterable? 60%"
"What percent of total Ca2+ in the blood exists in an ionized form (i.e. as Ca2+)? 45-50%"
"What percent of total Ca2+ in the blood is complexed to anions (e.g. sulfate, citrate, phosphate)? 10-15%"
"What is the only form of biologically active Ca2+? Free, ionized Ca2+"
"Hyperreflexia, spontaneous twitching, muscle cramping, tingling, and numbness are signs of which calcium imbalance? Hypocalcemia"
"The Chvostek sign is twitching of the facial muscles elicited by tapping on the facial nerve; it is an indicator of hypocalcemia"
"The Trousseau sign is carpopedal spasm upon inflation of a blood pressure cuff; it is an indicator of hypocalcemia"
"Why does hypocalcemia cause symptoms such as tingling/numbness and twitching/cramping? Decreased extracellular Ca2+ decreases the threshold potential (makes it more negative)"
"Constipation, polyuria, polydipsia, lethargy, and hyporeflexia are signs of which calcium imbalance? Hypercalcemia"
"What is the effect of acidemia on free ionized Ca2+ concentration? Increased"
"What is the effect of alkalemia on free ionized Ca2+ concentration? Decreased"
"Which three organ systems are involved in Ca2+ homeostasis? Bone, kidney, and intestine"
"Which three hormones are involved in Ca2+ homeostasis? Parathyroid hormone, calcitonin, and vitamin D (1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol)"
"What demographic is associated with positive Ca2+ balance? Growing children"
"What demographic is associated with negative Ca2+ balance? Women during pregnancy or lactation"
"Parathyroid hormone is synthesized and secreted by the chief cells of the parathyroid glands"
"Parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion is regulated by plasma Ca2+ concentration"
"When plasma Ca2+ concentrations decrease, parathyroid hormone secretion is increased (and vice versa)"
"Secretion of PTH is controlled by extracellular (serum) Ca2+ binding to Ca2+-sensing receptors in the parathyroid cell membrane"
"Chronic hypocalcemia causes secondary hyperparathyroidism, which is characterized by increased synthesis and storage of PTH and hyperplasia of the parathyroid glands"
"Mild decreases in serum Mg2+ concentration cause increased PTH secretion"
"Severe decreases in serum Mg2+ concentration cause decreased PTH secretion"
"What is the effect of increased serum PO43- on PTH secretion? Increased"
"The actions of PTH are coordinated to produce an increase in serum Ca2+ and a decrease in serum phosphate (PO43-)"
"Through what secondary messenger(s) does PTH exert its actions on bone and kidney tissue? cAMP"
"In bone, PTH receptors are located on osteoblasts, but not on osteoclasts"
"Initially and transiently, PTH causes an increase in bone formation by a direct action on osteoblasts"
"In bone, the long-term effect of PTH is bone resorption via indirect action on osteoclasts"
"The action of PTH on osteoclasts is indirect and mediated by cytokines released from osteoblasts"
"Resorption of the organic matrix of bone is reflected in increased hydroxyproline excretion in the urine"
"The overall effect of PTH on bone is to promote bone resorption, which delivers both Ca2+ and phosphate to extracellular fluid"
"Will the effect of PTH on bone alone increase ionized Ca2+ concentration? No, the calcium released would complex with the released phosphate, hence the importance of the phosphaturic action of PTH on the kidney"
"PTH acts on the kidney to inhibit renal phosphate reabsorption in the proximal convoluted tubule, which therefore increases phosphate excretion"
"The cAMP generated as a result of the action of PTH on the proximal tubule is excreted in the urine (urinary cAMP)"
"PTH acts on the kidney to increase renal calcium reabsorption in the distal convoluted tubule"
"How does PTH increase intestinal Ca2+ absorption? Indirectly, by stimulating production of 1,25-(OH)2D3 in the kidney"
"PTH Actions Summary Picture: no answer :)"
"Primary hyperparathyroidism is most commonly caused by a(n) parathyroid adenoma (which secretes excess PTH)"
"Primary hyperparathyroidism is characterized by hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and increased circulating levels of PTH"
"Patients with primary hyperparathyroidism have increased Ca2+ excretion due to the high filtered load of calcium on the kidney"
"What is a possible complication of increased Ca2+ in the urine (e.g. due to primary hyperparathyroidism)? Calcium-oxalate kidney stones"
"Patients with primary hyperparathyroidism have increased urinary excretion of phosphate, calcium, and cAMP"
"Which parathyroid disorder is characterized by \stones"
"What is the treatment for a patient with primary hyperparathyroidism? Parathyroidectomy"
"In secondary hyperparathyroidism, PTH levels are elevated secondary to hypocalcemia (or hyperphosphatemia)"
"Hypoparathyroidism is most commonly a result of thyroid surgery, or less commonly may be autoimmune or congenital"
"Hypoparathyroidism is characterized by decreased serum calcium (hypocalcemia) and increased serum phosphate (hyperphosphatemia)"
"Pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a, or Albright hereditary osteodystrophy, is due to a defective Gs protein in the kidney and bone, which causes end-organ resistance to PTH"
"Pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a is characterized by hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia that is not correctable by administration of exogenous PTH"
"What is the difference in PTH levels in hypoparathyroidism versus pseudohypoparathyroidism? PTH levels are elevated in pseudohypoparathyroidism due to stimulation by hypocalcemia"
"Some malignant tumors secrete PTH-related peptide (PTH-rp), which is structurally homologous with the PTH secreted by the parathyroid glands"
"Humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy is due to increased PTH-rp secretion and presents similarly to hyperparathyroidism (e.g. hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia)"
"Humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy may be treated with zoledronate (a bisphosphonate) or pamidronate, which inhibits bone resorption"
"Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) is caused by inactivating mutations of the Ca2+-sensing receptors that regulate PTH secretion"
"What is the inheritance of familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH)? Autosomal dominant"
"What is the effect of chronic renal failure on serum phosphate levels? Increased"
"In chronic renal failure, increased serum phosphate complexes Ca2+ and leads to decreased free, ionized Ca2+"
"In chronic renal failure, decreased production of the active form of vitamin D, (1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol) by the kidney contributes to decreased ionized Ca2+"
"The decreased ionized Ca2+ in chronic renal failure causes secondary hyperparathyroidism, which is characterized by increased levels of PTH"
"In CKD, the combination of elevated PTH and decreased 1,25-(OH)2D3 produces renal osteodystrophy, in which there is increased bone resorption and osteomalacia"
"The major stimulus for calcitonin secretion is hypercalcemia"
"The major function of calcitonin is to inhibit bone resorption, thus decreasing the plasma Ca2+ concentration"
"Calcitonin may be used to treat which calcium imbalance? Hypercalcemia"
"One external source of vitamin D (cholecalciferol) in the body is through ingestion/diet"
"Cholecalciferol is converted to 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25-OH-cholecalciferol) in the liver; this compound is chemically inactive"
"In the kidney, 25-hydroxycholecalciferol may be hydroxylated by the enzyme 1α-hydroxylase to produce 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol; this compound is chemically active"
"In the kidney, 25-hydroxycholecalciferol may be hydroxylated to produce 24,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol; this compound is chemically inactive"
"The activity of the renal enzyme 1α-hydroxylase is increased with decreased serum Ca2+ concentration"
"The activity of the renal enzyme 1α-hydroxylase is increased with increased PTH levels"
"The activity of the renal enzyme 1α-hydroxylase is increased with decreased serum phosphate concentration"
"The role of vitamin D (cholecalciferol) is to increase both Ca2+ and phosphate plasma concentrations to promote bone mineralization"
"1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol increases intestinal absorption of Ca2+ through synthesis of calbindin D-28K"
"In addition to calcium, 1,25-(OH)2 D3 also increases the intestinal absorption of phosphate (PO43-)"
"Similar to its action on the intestines, 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol increases the renal reabsorption of Ca2+ and phosphate"
"In bone, 1,25-(OH)2 D3 acts syngergistically with PTH to stimulate osteoclast activity and bone resorption"
"What effect does 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol have on its own production? Inhibits it (negative feedback)"
"In children, vitamin D deficiency causes rickets"
"In adults, vitamin D deficiency causes osteomalacia"
"Vitamin D resistance most commonly occurs due to chronic renal failure"
"Pituitary adenoma is a benign tumor of the anterior pituitary cells"
"Pituitary adenomas may be functional (hormone producing) or nonfunctional (silent)"
"Nonfunctional pituitary adenomas present with symptoms due to mass effect"
"Pituitary adenoma may present with bitemporal hemianopsia due to compression of the optic chiasm"
"Pituitary adenoma may present with hypopituitarism due to compression of normal pituitary tissue"
"A non-specific symptom of pituitary adenoma is headache (due to mass effect)"
"In males, prolactinoma presents as headache, decreased libido, and infertility"
"Prolactinoma may be treated with a(n) dopamine agonist, such as bromocriptine or cabergoline"
"Growth hormone cell adenoma presents as gigantism in children due to increased linear bone growth"
"Growth hormone cell adenoma presents as acromegaly in adults"
"Acromegaly is characterized by a large tongue with deep furrows and a deep voice"
"Acromegaly causes enlarged bones in the hands, feet, and jaw"
"Acromegaly may cause growth of visceral organs, leading to dysfunction"
"Acromegaly causes impaired glucose tolerance (i.e. insulin resistance), which may present as secondary diabetes mellitus"
"Acromegaly is associated with increased insulin resistance"
"What is the most common cause of death in patients with acromegaly? Heart failure"
"Growth hormone cell adenoma may be diagnosed by elevated serum levels of growth hormone and/or IGF-1"
"Growth hormone cell adenoma may be diagnosed by lack of GH suppression by oral glucose"
"One possible treatment for a growth hormone adenoma is a(n) somatostatin analog, such as octreotide"
"One possible treatment for a growth hormone adenoma is a(n) GH receptor antagonist, such as pegvisomant"
"TSH cell, LH-producing, and FSH-producing adenomas occur, but are rare::frequency"
"Symptoms of hypopituitarism arise when >75% of the pituitary parenchyma is lost"
"One possible cause of hypopituitarism in adults is pituitary adenoma (due to mass effect)"
"One possible cause of hypopituitarism in children is craniopharyngioma (due to mass effect)"
"One possible cause of hypopituitarism is a(n) pituitary apoplexy, which is a sudden hemorrhage of the pituitary gland, often in the presence of an existing adenoma"
"Hypopituitarism may be caused by Sheehan syndrome, which is a(n) pregnancy-related infarction of the pituitary gland"
"During pregnancy, the size of the pituitary gland doubles, but blood supply does not increase significantly"
"Pregnancy-related infarction of the pituitary gland (Sheehan syndrome) often occurs following postpartum bleeding"
"Symptoms of Sheehan syndrome include poor lactation, loss of pubic hair, and fatigue"
"External causes of hypopituitarism include brain injury and radiation"
"Hypopituitarism may be caused by empty sella syndrome, which may occur due to trauma or congenital defect of the sella"
"Empty sella syndrome occurs due to atrophy or compression, and ultimately destruction of the pituitary gland"
"Empty sella syndrome is characterized by absence of the pituitary gland on imaging"
"What demographic is more commonly affected by empty sella syndrome? Obese women"
"What is the treatment for hypopituitarism? Hormone replacement therapy"
"Central diabetes insipidus is characterized by polyuria and polydipsia with an inability to concentrate urine due to lack of ADH"
"Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is characterized by polyuria and polydipsia with an inability to concentrate urine due to lack of response to ADH"
"Etiologies of central diabetes insipidus include pituitary tumor, autoimmune, trauma, surgery, and ischemic encephalopathy"
"Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is often caused by ADH receptor mutations"
"Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus may be caused by drugs such as lithium and demeclocycline"
"Both central and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus are characterized by urine specific gravity < 1.006"
"Both central and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus are characterized by low urine osmolality"
"Both central and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus are characterized by serum osmolality > 290 mOsm/kg"
"Both central and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus are characterized by blood hyperosmotic volume contraction"
"Central diabetes insipidus is characterized by low levels of ADH"
"Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is characterized by normal or elevated levels of ADH"
"Treatment for central diabetes insipidus includes hydration and desmopressin, which is an ADH analog"
"Treatment for nephrogenic diabetes insipidus includes hydration and HCTZ, which is a thiazide diuretic"
"Diagnosis of diabetes insipidus is aided by the water deprivation test"
"In diabetes insipidus, the water deprivation test fails to increase urine osmolality"
"One possible cause of SIADH is small cell lung carcinoma, which provides a source of ectopic ADH"
"Disease of which organ system is most commonly associated with SIADH? Pulmonary"
"SIADH may be caused by drugs, such as (Can't Concentrate Serum Sodium) - Carbamazepine - Cyclophosphamide - SSRI"
"SIADH is characterized by increased retention of free water"
"SIADH is characterized by urine osmolality > serum osmolality"
"The very low serum Na+ concentration in SIADH can lead to cerebral edema and seizures"
"In SIADH, serum Na+ levels must be corrected slowly to prevent osmotic demyelination syndrome"
"Treatment of SIADH includes water restriction and demeclocycline, which is a tetracycline"
"A(n) thyroglossal duct cyst presents as a(n) anterior, midline::location neck mass that moves with swallowing or protrusion of the tongue"
"How does hyperthyroidism cause an increased basal metabolic rate? Via increased synthesis of Na+-K+ ATPase pumps"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with decreased heat production (cold intolerance) and decreased sweating? Hypothyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with increased heat production (heat intolerance) and increased sweating? Hyperthyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with weight gain and decreased appetite? Hypothyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with hyperdefecation / diarrhea? Hyperthyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with decreased reflexes? Hypothyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with tachycardia, palpitations, and arrhythmias? Hyperthyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with bradycardia and dyspnea on exertion? Hypothyroidism"
"Does hyperthyroidism present with hypo- or hyper-cholesterolemia? Why? Hypocholesterolemia; due to increased LDL receptor expression"
"Does hypothyroidism present with hypo- or hyper-cholesterolemia? Why? Hypercholesterolemia; due to decreased LDL receptor expression"
"Does hyperthyroidism present with hypo- or hyper-glycemia? Why? Hyperglycemia; due to increased gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis"
"What type of hypersensitivity is Graves disease? Type II (antibody-mediated)"
"What type of goiter is associated with Graves disease? Diffuse goiter"
"Graves disease is associated with pretibial myxedema which occurs due to activation of dermal fibroblasts"
"Scalloped colloid is a characteristic histological finding associated with Graves disease"
"What are the \4 P's\\" used to treat thyroid storm? 1. Prednisolone (corticosteroid) 2. Potassium iodide (Lugol iodine) 3. Propylthiouracil 4. Propranolol (beta-blockers)\""
"Hypothyroidism in neonates and infants is known as cretinism"
"A pot-bellied, pale, puffy-faced child with protruding umbilicus, protuberant tongue, and poor brain development is characteristic of cretinism"
"Myxedema is the accumulation of glycosaminoglycans in the skin and soft tissue; it is most often associated with hypothyroidism"
"In hypothyroidism patients, myxedema commonly affects the larynx (causing deep voice) and tongue (causing enlargement)"
"Which thyroid imbalance is associated with warm, moist skin and fine hair? Hyperthyroidism"
"Initially, Hashimoto thyroiditis presents as hyperthyroidism due to thyrotoxicosis during follicular rupture"
"Histologically, Hashimoto thyroiditis is associated with chronic inflammation with well-developed germinal centers"
"Does subacute granulomatous thyroiditis (de Quervain) present with a tender or nontender thyroid? **Very tender**"
"Subacute granulomatous thyroiditis (de Quervain) may initially present with hyperthyroidism, which typically is followed by a brief hypothyroid state"
"What histological findings are associated with Subacute thyroiditis (de Quervain)? Granulomatous inflammation"
"Riedel thyroiditis is characterized by replacement of thyroid by fibrous tissue with inflammatory infiltrate"
"Riedel thyroiditis is considered a manifestation of IgG4::esoterically specific :(-related systemic disease, which includes autoimmune pancreatitis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, and noninfectious aortitis"
"Thyroid nodules are more likely to be benign::benign or malignant than malignant::benign or malignant"
"If a thyroid nodule has decreased uptake of 131I, it is considered a(n) 'cold' nodule"
"How is a biopsy performed for a thyroid nodule? Fine needle aspiration (FNA)"
"What is the main distinguishing feature between follicular adenoma and follicular carcinoma of the thyroid? Follicular adenoma has a lack of capsular and vascular invasion"
"Exposure to ionizing radiation in childhood is a major risk factor for thyroid papillary carcinoma"
"What two gene mutations are associated with increased risk of thyroid papillary carcinoma? RET and BRAF"
"Thyroid papillary carcinoma may be lined by cells with clear, 'Orphan Annie eye' nuclei"
"In addition to 'Orphan Annie eye' nuclei, thyroid papillary carcinoma may have cells with intranuclear grooves and inclusions"
"Thyroid papillary carcinoma may have psammoma bodies on biopsy, which are characterized by concentric layers of calcification"
"Thyroid medullary carcinoma is a malignant proliferation of parafollicular \C\\" cells\""
"In thyroid medullary carcinoma::malignancy, calcitonin often deposits within the tumor as amyloid, which may be visualized with a(n) congo red stain"
"Detection of a RET oncogene mutation warrants prophylactic thyroidectomy"
"What two multiple endocrine neoplasias are associated with thyroid medullary carcinoma? MEN 2A and MEN 2B"
"What is the prognosis of thyroid anaplastic carcinoma? Poor"
"What type of thyroid carcinoma is illustrated in this histology slide? Anaplastic carcinoma"
"What is the most common cause of primary hyperparathyroidism? Parathyroid adenoma (>80%)"
"What is the serum calcium level in primary hyperparathyroidism? Increased (due to increased PTH)"
"As a result of hypercalcemia, patients with primary hyperparathyroidism are at increased risk for calcium oxalate kidney stones"
"Nephrocalcinosis is the deposition of calcium in the tubules of the kidney due to primary hyperparathyroidism"
"Primary hyperparathyroidism may lead to CNS disturbances, such as depression and seizures"
"The increased level of calcium in primary hyperparathyroidism may lead to activation of pancreatic enzymes, causing acute pancreatitis"
"Is a patient with hyperparathyroidism more likely to present with constipation or diarrhea? Constipation"
"Primary hyperparathyroidism often presents with increased levels of urinary cAMP due to the activation of Gs proteins when PTH binds its receptor"
"Hyperparathyroidism often presents with increased levels of serum ALP due to increased osteoblast activity"
"What is the serum level of calcium in primary hyperparathyroidism? Increased (hypercalcemia)"
"What is the serum level of phosphate in primary hyperparathyroidism? Decreased (hypophosphatemia)"
"What is the serum level of calcium in secondary hyperparathyroidism? Decreased (hypocalcemia)"
"What is the most common cause of secondary hyperparathyroidism? Chronic renal failure"
"How does renal insufficiency cause secondary hyperparathyroidism? (sorry)  1. Renal insufficiency causes decreased phosphate excretion and thus increased serum phosphate levels 2. Increased serum phosphate may bind free, ionized calcium, thus decreasing serum calcium levels 3. Decreased free calcium stimulates PTH release from the parathyroid glands"
"Chronic renal disease can cause a secondary hyperparathyroidism syndrome known as Renal Osteodystrophy, which is characterized by bone lesions due to increased bone resorption (from elevated PTH)"
"Tertiary hyperparathyroidism is refractory (autonomous) hyperparathyroidism resulting from chronic renal disease"
"Pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a or Albright hereditary osteodystrophy is characterized by shortened stature and shortened 4th and 5th digits"
"What is the inheritance of pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a (Albright hereditary osteodystrophy)? Autosomal dominant"
"Which endocrine disorder presents with the physical features of Albright hereditary dystrophy but without the end-organ PTH resistance? Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism"
"Pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a occurs due to an inherited defect from the mother due to imprinting"
"Pseudopseudohypoparathyroidism occurs when a defective Gs alpha-subunit is inherited from the father"
"Diagnosis of parathyroid disease summary: no answer :)"
"Type 1 diabetes mellitus is due to autoimmune destruction of pancreatic β cells by anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies"
"What type of hypersensitivity is type 1 DM? type IV HSR"
"What age group is most commonly affected by type 1 DM? < 30 years old"
"Is type 1 DM characterized by a strong or weak genetic predisposition (compared to type 2)? Relatively weak (50% concordance in identical twins)"
"Is type 2 DM characterized by a strong or weak genetic predisposition (compared to type 1)? Relatively strong (90% concordance in twin studies)"
"Histology of type 2 diabetes mellitus demonstrates islets with amyloid deposits"
"What is the level of insulin in a patient with type 2 diabetes (elevated, decreased, normal)? Variable; increased early in disease, but may be decreased later in disease due to β cell exhaustion"
"What is the most common type of diabetes mellitus? Type 2"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with type 2 DM? Middle-aged, obese patients"
"Steroid diabetes may be seen in patients on glucocorticoid therapy"
"The diagnosis for diabetes mellitus may be made using HbA1c which reflects average blood glucose over 3 prior months"
"What is the diagnostic cutoff for HbA1c for a diagnosis of diabetes mellitus? ≥6.5%"
"Diabetic ketoacidosis often arises with stress (e.g. infection)"
"What are the two major ketone bodies produced in a type 1 diabetic patient? β-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate"
"Diabetic ketoacidosis is associated with a(n) fruity breath odor due to exhaled acetone"
"Diabetic ketoacidosis is associated with Kussmaul respirations, which is rapid/deep breathing to compensate for metabolic acidosis"
"What is the intracellular potassium level in a type 1 diabetic patient? Decreased::increased or decreased"
"What is the treatment for diabetic ketoacidosis? IV fluids, insulin, and K+ (to replete intracellular stores)"
"Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic non-ketotic syndrome often presents with glucose levels > 600 mg/dL and increased serum osmolarity (> 320 mOsm/kg)"
"Why doesn't hyperosmolar hyperglycemia non-ketotic syndrome present with ketoacidosis? Why? ketone production is inhibited by presence of insulin"
"One chronic complication of diabetes mellitus is non-enzymatic glycosylation of vascular basement membranes"
"Non-enzymatic glycosylation of medium and large-sized vessels leads to atherosclerosis in diabetic patients"
"Non-enzymatic glycosylation of small vessels can cause hyaline arteriolosclerosis of the kidney, which may lead to chronic renal failure"
"Non-enzymatic glycosylation of hemoglobin leads to HbA1c"
"In diabetes patients, osmotic damage may occur when glucose in tissue is converted to sorbitol by the enzyme aldose reductase"
"In diabetes patients, peripheral neuropathy and autonomic neuropathy occurs as a result of osmotic damage to Schwann cells"
"In diabetes patients, blindness occurs as a result of osmotic damage to pericytes::cell type of retinal blood vessels, weakening the vessel wall and causing aneurysm formation"
"Glucose is converted to sorbitol by the enzyme aldose reductase"
"What is the treatment for a glucagonoma? Octreotide (somatostatin analog) or surgery::2 options"
"A(n) insulinoma is a tumor of pancreatic β cells"
"The Whipple's triad help confirm symptomatic hypoglycemia - low blood glucose - symptoms of hypoglycemia - resolution of symptoms after normalization of glucose levels"
"About 10% of cases of insulinoma are associated with MEN 1 syndrome"
"A(n) somatostatinoma is a tumor of pancreatic delta cells"
"Somatostatinoma may present with diabetes due to inhibition of insulin"
"The secretin stimulation test may be used to aid in the diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome"
"If a patient has Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, gastrin levels will remain elevated after administration of secretin (secretin stimulation test)"
"Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is caused by a(n) gastrinoma of the pancreas or duodenum"
"Carcinoid tumors often secrete serotonin (5-HT), which is dumped into the portal vein and processed by the liver via monoamine oxidase (MAO)"
"Elevated levels of 5-HIAA, a metabolite of serotonin, in the urine is indicative of a(n) carcinoid tumor"
"What is the most common malignancy in the small intestine? Carcinoid tumor (neuroendocrine cells)"
"Carcinoid syndrome may occur if the carcinoid tumor metastasizes to the liver"
"Carcinoid syndrome is characterized by bronchospasm (asthmatic wheezing), recurrent diarrhea, and flushing of the skin"
"Carcinoid syndrome may cause carcinoid heart disease, which is characterized by right-sided valvular fibrosis leading to tricuspid regurgitation and pulmonary valve stenosis"
"Why are left-sided valvular lesions not seen in a patient with carcinoid heart disease? blood passes through the lung, which contains MAO, thus converting 5-HT to 5-HIAA before reaching the left heart"
"VIPoma is a non-α, non-β, non-δ islet cell pancreatic tumor that secretes VIP (also known as WDHA syndrome)"
"The symptoms of VIPoma are Watery Diarrhea, Hypokalemia, and Achlorhydria"
"Cushing syndrome simply refers to an increase in serum cortisol"
"Cushing disease refers specifically to a(n) ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma"
"What is the most common endogenous cause of Cushing syndrome? Cushing disease (i.e. an ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma)"
"One clinical feature of Cushing syndrome is muscle weakness with thin extremities"
"Clinical features of Cushing syndrome include moon facies, buffalo hump, and truncal obesity due to increased fat storage, secondary to excess insulin"
"One clinical feature of Cushing syndrome is abdominal striae which is a result of impaired collagen synthesis, allowing blood vessels to rupture easily"
"One clinical feature of Cushing syndrome is hypertension, which is a result of an upregulation of alpha1-adrenergic receptors, causing increased sensitivity of blood vessels to catecholamines"
"One clinical feature of Cushing syndrome is osteoporosis, which is a result of decreased osteoblast activity"
"One positive screening test for Cushing syndrome is no cortisol suppression with overnight low-dose dexamethasone test (1mg)"
"What is the state of the adrenal glands in Cushing syndrome due to exogenous corticosteroids? bilateral atrophy"
"What is the state of the adrenal glands in Cushing syndrome due to primary adrenal adenoma, hyperplasia, or carcinoma? Atrophy of the uninvolved gland; hyperplasia of the involved gland::hyperplasia, atrophy; one, both"
"What is the state of the adrenal glands in Cushing syndrome due to ACTH secreting pituitary adenoma? Hyperplasia of both adrenal glands::hyperplasia, atrophy; one, both"
"What is the state of the adrenal glands in Cushing syndrome due to a paraneoplastic (ectopic) ACTH secretion? Hyperplasia of both adrenal glands::hyperplasia, atrophy; one, both"
"What is the differential diagnosis in a Cushing syndrome patient with suppressed ACTH? 1. Exogenous glucocorticoids 2. Adrenal adenoma (or carcinoma, hyperplasia)"
"What is the differential diagnosis in a Cushing syndrome patient with elevated ACTH? 1. Cushing disease (ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma) 2. Ectopic ACTH secretion"
"If a patient with ACTH-dependent Cushing syndrome has increased ACTH secretion following a CRH stimulation test, the most likely cause of their syndrome is Cushing disease"
"If a patient with ACTH-dependent Cushing syndrome has no increase in ACTH secretion following a CRH stimulation test, the most likely cause of their syndrome is ectopic ACTH secretion"
"What two tests may be used to differentiate between Cushing disease and ectopic (paraneoplastic) ACTH secretion? 1. High-dose dexamethasone suppression test 2. CRH stimulation test"
"Hyperaldosteronism presents as hypertension::blood pressure with hypernatremia::Na+, hypokalemia::K+, and metabolic alkalosis::H+"
"Aldosterone increases Na+ and H2O reabsorption at the distal tubules and collecting duct"
"Congenital adrenal hyperplasia occurs due to loss of one of the four enzymes needed for cortisol synthesis"
"11β-hydroxylase deficiency presents with hypokalemia::K+ and hypertension::blood pressure"
"What clinical features are seen in 11β-hydroxylase deficiency that are a result of increased androgen levels: virilization (in women)"
"17α-hydroxylase deficiency presents with hypokalemia::K+ and hypertension::blood pressure"
"Adrenal insufficiency is the inability of the adrenal glands to generate enough glucocorticoids +/- mineralocorticoids"
"In primary adrenal insufficiency, the metyrapone stimulation test results are increased ACTH with decreased 11-deoxycortisol"
"In secondary/tertiary adrenal insufficiency, the metyrapone stimulation test results are decreased ACTH with decreased 11-deoxycortisol"
"Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome classically follows after DIC in young children with N. meningitidis infection"
"Adrenal atrophy or destruction due to disease is the cause of chronic::acute or chronic primary adrenal insufficiency, also known as Addison's disease."
"The most common cause of Addison disease in the West is autoimmune destruction"
"A common cause of Addison disease is metastatic carcinoma, especially from the lungs"
"One clinical feature of Addison disease is hypotension::BP"
"Does secondary adrenal insufficiency present with hyperkalemia? No, because aldosterone synthesis is preserved"
"Tertiary adrenal insufficiency is seen in patients with chronic exogenous steroid use, precipitated by abrupt withdrawal"
"The adrenal medulla is composed of chromaffin cells, which are derived from neural crest"
"The adrenal medulla is responsible for the secretion of the catecholamines norepinephrine and epinephrine"
"The classic finding on gross exam for a pheochromocytoma is a(n) brown tumor"
"In what time course pattern will patients with pheochromocytoma experience their symptoms? episodically, not continuously"
"The five episodic hyperadrenergic symptoms of a(n) pheochromocytoma are: 1. Pressure (increased BP) 2. Pain (headache) 3. Perspiration 4. Palpitations (tachycardia) 5. Pallor"
"Treatment for a pheochromocytoma is surgical excision"
"Prior to removal of a pheochromocytoma, irreversible α-antagonists, such as phenoxybenzamine are administered, followed by β-blockers"
"Up to 25% of cases of pheochromocytoma are associated with germline mutations, including NF-1, VHL, and RET (MEN2A/2B)"
"Pheochromocytoma is associated with the rule of 10s"
"One classic location for a pheochromocytoma outside of the adrenal medulla is in the bladder wall, which presents with episodic symptoms of a pheochromocytoma following urination"
"One classic location for a(n) pheochromocytoma outside of the adrenal medulla is the organ of Zuckerkandl at the inferior mesenteric artery root"
"Removal of a lingual thyroid may result in hypothyroidism if it is the only thyroid tissue present"
"What is the embryonic origin of parafollicular cells (C cells) of the thyroid? Endoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the adrenal medulla? Neural crest::specific"
"Overall, the effects of insulin are anabolic::anabolic, catabolic"
"Which bidirectional insulin-independent transporter is found in the β-islet cells, liver, kidney, and small intestine? GLUT2"
"Which insulin-independent transporter is found in the brain and placenta only? GLUT3"
"Which insulin-independent transporter is found in the spermatocytes and the GI tract (fructose)? GLUT-5"
"Tissues that are not dependent on insulin for glucose uptake may be remembered using the mnemonic \BRICK LIPS\\": B: Brain R: RBCs I: Intestine C: Cornea K: Kidney L: Liver I: Islet (β) cells P: Placenta S: Spermatocytes\""
"Overall, the effects of glucagon are catabolic::anabolic, catabolic"
"What is the effect of chest wall trauma on prolactin secretion? Increased"
"What is the effect of ghrelin on appetite? Increased"
"In response to sleep deprivation, ghrelin secretion is increased"
"What is the effect of leptin on appetite? Decreased"
"In response to sleep deprivation, leptin secretion is decreased"
"What is the effect of endocannabinoids on appetite? Increased (\the munchies\\")\""
"Which steroid hormone enzyme deficiency presents with increased renin activity? 21-hydroxylase"
"Overall, the effect of cortisol is catabolic::anabolic, catabolic"
"After PTH binds to osteoblasts, RANK-L is secreted which binds to RANK on osteoclasts, increasing bone resorption"
"Overall, the effects of thyroid hormones are catabolic::anabolic, catabolic"
"The main functions of thyroid hormone can be remembered with the \7 B's\\"? 1. β1 effects"
"Which hormones use cGMP as their secondary messenger? ANP, BNP, NO::3"
"Which hormones use IP3 as their secondary messenger? GnRH Oxytocin ADH (V1) TRH Histamine (H1) Angiotensin II Gastrin"
"Which endocrine hormones use receptor-associated tyrosine kinases as their signaling pathway (2 +2 bonus)? Prolactin, Growth hormone"
"In women, decreased levels of sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) causes hirsutism due to increased free testosterone"
"Adrenal insufficiency may present with sugar and/or salt cravings due to decreased levels of glucocorticoids +/- mineralocorticoids"
"What are the two main areas that experience hyperpigmentation due to Addison disease? Skin and mucous membranes"
"The cells of neuroendocrine tumors contain amine precursor uptake decarboxylase (APUD)"
"What is the most common tumor of the adrenal medulla in children? Neuroblastoma"
"The most common presentation for a(n) neuroblastoma is abdominal distention with a firm, irregular mass that can cross the midline"
"Neuroblastoma is characterized by the serum markers bombesin and neuron specific enolase"
"Which rosettes are seen in Neuroblastoma? Homer-Wright Rosettes"
"Neuroblastoma is characterized by increased levels of homovanillic acid (HVA) and vanillylmandelic acid (VMA) in the urine (catecholamine metabolites)"
"Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia presents with mild hypercalcemia and hypocalciuria with normal or increased PTH levels"
"What is the most common cause of hypoparathyroidism? Surgical excision"
"One complication of hyperparathyroidism is osteitis fibrosa cystica, which is characterized by bone pain and cystic bone spaces filled with brown fibrous tissue"
"What surgical approach is used in the removal of a pituitary adenoma? Transsphenoidal resection"
"Nelson syndrome is an enlargement of existing ACTH-secreting pituitary adenoma after bilateral adrenalectomy for refractory Cushing disease"
"Nelson syndrome presents with symptoms of both mass effect and elevated ACTH, including hyperpigmentation, headaches, and bitemporal hemianopsia"
"Laron syndrome, also known as dwarfism, is due to defective growth hormone receptors, causing decreased linear growth"
"Laron syndrome, or dwarfism, is characterized by increased GH and decreased IGF-1"
"Clinical features of Laron syndrome include short height, small head circumference, facies with saddle nose and prominent forehead, small genitalia, and delayed skeletal maturation"
"Pituitary apoplexy presents with sudden onset severe headache with visual impairment (bitemporal hemianopsia, diplopia) and features of hypopituitarism"
"Carcinoid syndrome is associated with the \rule of 1/3s\\"\""
"What is the inheritance of all multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) syndromes? Autosomal dominant"
"MEN 1 is associated with pituitary tumors that secrete prolactin or GH"
"MEN 1 is associated with pancreatic endocrine tumors, such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (gastrinoma), insulinomas, VIPomas, and glucagonomas (rare)"
"MEN 1 is associated with parathyroid adenomas"
"Which three organs or diseases are involved in MEN 2A? Parathyroid, thyroid (medullary carcinoma) and pheochromocytomas"
"MEN 2A is associated with parathyroid hyperplasia"
"MEN 2A and 2B are associated with medullary thyroid carcinoma::thyroid malignancy"
"MEN 2A and 2B are associated with pheochromocytoma::adrenal medulla"
"Which three organs or diseases are involved in MEN 2B? Thyroid (medullary carcinoma), pheochromocytomas, and mucosal neuromas"
"MEN 2B is associated with mucosal neuromas (oral/intestinal ganglioneuromatosis)"
"MEN 2B is associated with marfanoid habitus and mutations in the RET gene"
"MEN 2A is associated with mutations in the RET gene, which codes for receptor tyrosine kinase in cells of neural crest origin"
"Activation of which adrenergic receptor increases production of insulin? β2"
"What is the effect of insulin on Na+-K+-ATPase activity? Increased (thus causing increased K+ uptake into cells)"
"When insulin acts on liver tissue, it causes increased glycogenesis and decreased glycogenolysis"
"When insulin acts on muscle tissue, it causes increased glycogen storage and increased protein synthesis"
"Regular insulin is the only insulin that can be administered IV"
"Insulin Detemir and Glargine are characterized by long action and duration"
"Sulfonylureas (and meglitinides) bind the ATP-dependent K+ channels on pancreatic β cells, causing release of endogenous insulin"
"DPP-4 inhibitors increase levels of endogenously secreted GLP-1"
"The effects of cortisol may be remembered with the mnemonic \A BIG FIB\\": A: increased Appetite B: Blood pressure (increased"
"Metformin, a(n) biguanide, is the first line oral agent for the management of type 2 diabetes"
"Genetic sex is defined by the sex chromosomes, XY in males and XX in females"
"Gonadal sex is defined by the presence of testes in males and ovaries in females"
"Phenotypic sex is defined by characteristics of the internal genital tract and the external genitalia"
"At gestational weeks 6 to 7 in genetic males, the testes begin to develop"
"The male gonads consist of three cell types: germ cells, Sertoli cells, and Leydig cells"
"The germ cells of the male gonads produce spermatogonia"
"The Sertoli cells of the male gonads synthesize a glycoprotein called anti-müllerian hormone, which is critical for the development of male genitalia"
"The Leydig cells of the male gonads synthesize testosterone"
"The female gonads consist of three cell types: germ cells, granulosa cells, and theca cells"
"The germ cells of the female gonads produce oogonia"
"The theca cells of the female gonads synthesize the hormone progesterone"
"Testosterone stimulates the growth and differentiation of the wolffian ducts, which develop into the male internal genital tract"
"Anti-müllerian hormone (müllerian inhibitory factor) causes atrophy of the müllerian ducts, which would have developed into the female internal genital tract"
"In androgen insensitivity syndrome a person is genotypically XY but has female external genitalia with male internal genitalia"
"In childhood, hormone levels are lowest and FSH levels are greater than LH levels"
"In puberty and throughout the reproductive years, FSH levels are less than LH levels"
"In senescence, hormone levels are highest and FSH levels are greater than LH levels"
"The primary event that initiates puberty is the onset of pulsatile secretion of GnRH from the hypothalamus"
"The pulsatile pattern of GnRH after puberty drives a parallel pulsatile secretion of both FSH and LH by the anterior pituitary"
"At puberty, GnRH up-regulates its own receptor in the anterior pituitary, thus increasing sensitivity"
"The onset of menstrual cycles in females is referred to as menarche"
"Eighty percent of the adult testis is composed of seminiferous tubules, which produce the sperm"
"Twenty percent of the adult testis is composed of connective tissue interspersed with Leydig cells, which synthesize and secrete testosterone"
"Germ cells (spermatogonia) maintain the germ pool and produce primary spermatocytes"
"Sertoli cells (males) secrete inhibin B::specific, which serves to inhibit FSH"
"Sertoli cells secrete androgen-binding protein which maintains local testosterone levels and  Inhibin B which inhibits FSH "
"Tight junctions between adjacent Sertoli cells form the blood-testis barrier, which isolate gametes from autoimmune attack"
"Sertoli cells function to support and nourish developing spermatogonia"
"Sertoli cells are the homolog of female granulosa cells"
"What is the effect of increased temperature on sperm production? Decreased"
"What is the effect of increased temperature on inhibin B secretion? Decreased"
"Which cell type of the seminiferous tubule regulates spermatogenesis? Sertoli cells"
"Leydig cells secrete testosterone in the presence of LH"
"What is the effect of increased temperature on testosterone production? No effect"
"Male Leydig cells are the homolog of female theca cells"
"What is the location of germ cells and Sertoli cells in relation to the seminiferous tubules? Form the lining"
"What is the location of Leydig cells in relation to the seminiferous tubules? Present in the interstitium"
"The first stage of spermatogenesis is DNA replication (interphase) of spermatogonia to generate the primary spermatocyte"
"After the primary spermatocyte has been formed, it undergoes meiosis I to become a(n) secondary spermatocyte"
"After the secondary spermatocyte has been formed, it undergoes meiosis II to become a(n) spermatid"
"After spermatids have been formed from secondary spermatocytes, they undergo spermiogenesis to form spermatozoa"
"What changes occur during the process of spermiogenesis? - Loss of cytoplasmic contents - Gain of a(n) acrosomal cap - Development of flagella"
"After which stage of spermatogenesis does the diploid sperm become haploid? Meiosis I (primary spermatocyte to secondary spermatocyte)"
"One full cycle of spermatogenesis takes 64 days"
"Where in the testis does spermatogenesis occur? Seminiferous tubules"
"What is the pathway of sperm during ejaculation? Seminiferous tubules Epididymis Vas deferens Ejaculatory ducts (receives vas deferens and seminal vesicle) (Nothing) Urethra Penis "
"The primary location for the maturation and storage of sperm is the epididymis"
"The seminal vesicles secretes a fluid rich in fructose, citrate, prostaglandins, and fibrinogen, which are nutritive for the ejaculated sperm"
"The prostate gland adds a slightly alkaline secretion to sperm ejaculate, which is rich in citrate, calcium, and enzymes"
"Ejaculated sperm cannot immediately fertilize an ovum, but rather must reside in the female reproductive tract for capacitation to occur"
"Leydig cells do not contain the steroid hormone enzymes 21β-hydroxylase or 11β-hydroxylase and, therefore, cannot synthesize glucocorticoids or mineralocorticoids"
"In the first step of testosterone synthesis, cholesterol is converted to pregnenolone via the enzyme cholesterol desmolase"
"Pregnenolone may be converted to 17-hydroxypregnenolone via the enzyme 17α-hydroxylase"
"17-hydroxypregnenolone may be converted to dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) via the enzyme 17,20-lyase"
"Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) may be converted to androstenedione via the enzyme 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase"
"In some tissues, such as the prostate, dihydrotestosterone is the active androgen, not testosterone"
"Testosterone is converted to dihydrotestosterone via the enzyme 5α-reductase"
"5α-reductase inhibitors, such as finasteride may be used to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia because they block activation of testosterone (to DHT) in the prostate"
"Pulsatile secretion of GnRH stimulates the anterior pituitary to secrete FSH and LH"
"Anterior pituitary control of spermatogenesis and testosterone secretion are regulated via the hormones FSH and LH"
"The pituitary hormone FSH acts on the Sertoli cells to maintain spermatogenesis"
"The pituitary hormone LH acts on the Leydig cells to promote testosterone synthesis"
"Testosterone acts via an intratesticular paracrine mechanism to reinforce the spermatogenic effects of FSH in Sertoli cells"
"What is the effect of testosterone on GnRH secretion? Decreased"
"What is the effect of testosterone on LH secretion? Decreased"
"The Sertoli cells release a substance called inhibin B::specific which causes decreased secretion of FSH (negative feedback)"
"Which hormone directly inhibits the secretion of LH in males? Testosterone"
"Which androgen is responsible for closing of epiphyseal plates (cessation of pubertal growth)? Testosterone"
"Which androgen is responsible for libido? Testosterone"
"Which androgen is responsible for differentiation of the external male genitalia (penis and scrotum)? Dihydrotestosterone (DHT)"
"Which androgen is responsible for differentiation of the prostate? Dihydrotestosterone (DHT)"
"Which androgen is associated with prostate growth? Dihydrotestosterone (DHT)"
"Which androgen is associated with male hair patterns and balding? Dihydrotestosterone (DHT)"
"Which androgen is associated with sebaceous gland activity? Dihydrotestosterone (DHT)"
"Androgen insensitivity syndrome is caused by a deficiency of androgen receptors in target tissues of males"
"In 5α-reductase deficiency, a person is genotypically XY but has underdeveloped (ambiguous) male external genitalia with normal internal genitalia"
"In males, androgens are converted to estrogen by cytochrome P-450 aromatase"
"In males, androgens are converted to estrogen primarily in adipose tissue and the testis"
"In males, exogenous testosterone causes decreased intratesticular testosterone, leading to decreased testicular size and azoospermia"
"The function of the ovaries are oogenesis and secretion of the female sex steroid hormones progesterone and estrogen"
"The outer, and largest, layer of the ovary is the cortex, which contains all the oocytes enclosed in a follicle"
"The middle layer of the ovary is the medulla, which contains a mixture of cell types"
"The inner layer of the ovary is the hilum, through which blood vessels and lymphatics pass"
"The functional unit of the ovaries is the single ovarian follicle, which comprises one germ cell surrounded by endocrine cells"
"In the developing ovaries, primordial germ cells produce oogonia by mitotic divisions until gestational weeks 20 to 24"
"DNA replication (interphase) of oogonia generates the primary oocytes (arrested in prophase 1)"
"Which phase of the cell cycle are primary oocytes arrested in until ovulation? Prophase I (of meiosis I)"
"Beginning at ovulation, primary oocytes begin to complete meiosis I (diploid) to form secondary oocytes (haploid)"
"Which phase of the cell cycle are secondary oocytes arrested in until fertilization? Metaphase II (of meiosis II)"
"After fertilization, the secondary oocyte completes meiosis II to form a(n) ovum"
"Primary oocytes are arrested in prophase I of meiosis I for years until ovulation"
"Secondary oocytes are arrested in metaphase II of meiosis II until fertilization"
"The first stage (long) of ovarian follicle development involves development of a(n) primary follicle from a primordial follicle"
"The second stage (short) of ovarian follicle development involves the development of a(n) graafian follicle from a primary/secondary follicle"
"In the third stage (rapid) of ovarian follicle development, a single graafian follicle achieves dominance and ruptures, releasing its oocyte into the peritoneal cavity via the process of ovulation"
"If fertilization occurs, the residual elements of the ruptured ovarian follicle form the corpus luteum, which synthesizes and secretes steroid hormones"
"If fertilization does not occur, the residual elements of the ruptured ovarian follicle is replaced by a scar called the corpus albicans"
"In the ovaries, theca cells synthesize pregnenolone from cholesterol via the enzyme cholesterol desmolase"
"In the ovaries, cholesterol desmolase activity is stimulated by the hormone LH"
"In the ovaries, theca cells synthesize and secrete progesterone from pregnenolone via the enzyme 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase"
"In addition to progesterone, theca cells also synthesize androstenedione which diffuses to nearby granulosa cells"
"In the granulosa cells of the ovary, androstenedione is converted to testosterone via the enzyme 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase"
"In the granulosa cells of the ovary, testosterone is converted to 17β-estradiol::specific form via the enzyme aromatase"
"In the ovaries, aromatase activity is stimulated by the hormone FSH"
"Hypothalamic control of oogenesis and progesterone/estradiol secretion are regulated via the hormone GnRH"
"Ovarian granulosa cells may produce inhibin, which inhibits FSH secretion from the anterior pituitary"
"Ovarian granulosa cells may produce activin, which stimulates FSH secretion from the anterior pituitary"
"Which female sex steroid is responsible for the development of female genitalia (fallopian tubes, uterus, cervix, vagina)? Estrogen"
"Which female sex steroid is responsible for the development of breasts? Estrogen"
"Which female sex steroid is responsible for growth of the ovarian follicle and endometrial proliferation? Estrogen"
"Which female sex steroid is responsible for female fat distribution? Estrogen"
"What is the effect of estrogen on LH, estrogen, and progesterone receptors? Up-regulation::up- or down-regulation"
"What is the effect of estrogen on prolactin secretion? Increased"
"What form of estrogen is produced in the ovary? 17β-estradiol"
"What form of estrogen is produced in the placenta? Estriol"
"What form of estrogen is produced in the adipose tissue? Estrone"
"Rank the forms of estrogen from most to least potent? 17β-estradiol > estrone > estriol"
"What is the effect of estrogen on levels of HDL? Increased"
"Which female sex steroid is responsible for the maintenance of pregnancy? Progesterone"
"Which female sex steroid is responsible for spiral artery development? Progesterone"
"Which female sex steroid is responsible for watery cervical mucus, which facilitates sperm entry into the uterus? Estrogen"
"Elevated levels of progesterone in a non-pregnant patient is an indication that ovulation has occurred"
"During pregnancy, there is a(n) 50-fold increase in estradiol and estrone"
"During pregnancy, there is a(n) 1000-fold increase in estriol, which is an indicator of fetal well-being"
"Variation in menstrual cycle length is attributed to the variability in duration of the follicular phase"
"By convention, day 0 of the menstrual cycle marks the onset of menses"
"The first phase of the menstrual cycle is the follicular (proliferative) phase, which lasts from days 0 to 14"
"During the follicular phase a graafian follicle develops into a(n) dominant follicle with atresia of neighboring follicles"
"The follicular phase of the menstrual cycle is dominated by the hormone 17β-estradiol (estrogen), causing endometrial proliferation"
"During the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle, progesterone levels are low"
"In the middle of the menstrual cycle ovulation occurs, which occurs 14 days prior to menses"
"Ovulation follows the LH surge, which occurs due to a burst of estradiol"
"In the middle of the menstrual cycle, estradiol stimulates FSH and LH secretion"
"At ovulation, cervical mucus increases in quantity and becomes more watery and penetrable by sperm"
"Estradiol levels decrease just after ovulation, but increase again during the luteal phase"
"Ovarian follicular growth is fastest during the 2nd week of the follicular phase"
"The second phase of the menstrual cycle is the luteal phase, which lasts from days 14 to 28, ending with the onset of menses"
"During the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, the corpus luteum begins to develop"
"The corpus luteum synthesizes estradiol and progesterone"
"The luteal phase of the menstrual cycle is dominated by the hormone progesterone, causing increased secretory activity and vascularity of the endometrium"
"During the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle, basal body temperature increases due to the effect of progesterone on the hypothalamic temperature set-point"
"During the luteal phase of menstruation, cervical mucus becomes more thick (less watery) and less penetrable by sperm"
"If fertilization does not occur, the corpus luteum regresses and estradiol and progesterone levels decrease abruptly"
"What is the result of decreased progesterone on fertility? Decreased"
"What is the effect of progesterone on LH and FSH secretion? Decreased"
"Patients with abnormal menstrual bleeding present with variations of a(n) normal menstrual cycle and symptoms of anemia"
"Abnormal uterine bleeding is further subcategorized by PALM-COEIN; with Structural causes including: - Polyp - Adenomyosis - Leiomyoma - Malignancy / hyperplasia"
"Abnormal uterine bleeding is further subcategorized by PALM-COEIN; with Non-structural causes including: - Coagulopathy - Ovulatory dysfunction - Endometrial - Iatrogenic - Not yet classified"
"In cases of heavy menstrual bleeding, Abnormal uterine bleeding can be treated with hormone therapy or NSAIDS / tranexamic acid"
"In early pregnancy (first trimester), the source of steroid hormones is the corpus luteum"
"In mid-to-late pregnancy (second and third trimester), the source of steroid hormones is the placenta"
"Pregnancy is characterized by steadily increasing levels of estrogen and progesterone"
"Fertilization must occur within one day(s) of ovulation"
"The receptivity of the endometrium to the fertilized ovum is critically dependent on a(n) low estrogen/progesterone ratio"
"The function of hCG is to maintain the corpus luteum by acting like LH for the first 8-10 weeks of pregnancy"
"The dominant hormone produced during the first trimester of pregnancy is hCG"
"During the second and third trimesters, progesterone is produced by the placenta, using cholesterol from the mother"
"During the second and third trimesters, the fetal adrenal gland converts pregnenolone to DHEA-sulfate"
"During the second and third trimesters, the fetal liver converts DHEA-sulfate to 16-hydroxy DHEA-sulfate"
"During the second and third trimesters, 16-OH DHEA-sulfate is converted to estriol via the enzymes aromatase and sulfatase"
"As parturition nears, the estrogen/progesterone ratio increases, which makes the uterus more sensitive to contractile stimuli"
"Which hormone remains elevated following parturition? Prolactin"
"Why does lactation not occur during pregnancy, even though prolactin levels are increasing? Progesterone and estrogen downregulate prolactin receptors on the breast"
"As long as lactation continues, ovulation is suppressed, due to inhibitory effects of prolactin on GnRH, FSH, and LH"
"Oral contraceptives contain high doses of estrogen and progesterone (or progesterone alone) which prevent ovulation via inhibition of FSH and LH"
"In the male, the SRY gene on the Y chromosome produces testis-determining factor, which is necessary for testes development"
"Anti-müllerian hormone, from the Sertoli cells, is also referred to as müllerian inhibitory factor"
"If there is a lack of Sertoli cells or MIF during development of a genotypically XY fetus, there is both male and female internal genitalia and male external genitalia"
"The indifferent gonad (testis, ovary) begins development next to the fetal kidney, known as the mesonephros"
"Which embryologic structure develops into the fallopian tubes, uterus, and upper portion of the vagina (internal female genitalia)? Paramesonephric (müllerian) duct"
"Müllerian agenesis, also known as Mayer-Rokitansky-Küster-Hauser syndrome, presents as primary amenorrhea in females with fully developed secondary sexual characteristics"
"Which embryologic structure develops into the seminal vesicles, epididymis, ejaculatory duct, and ductus deferens (male internal genitalia, except prostate)? Mesonephric (wolffian) duct"
"Septate uterus is a common anomaly of the uterus due to incomplete resorption of the septum"
"What is the treatment for septate uterus? Septoplasty"
"What is the effect of septate uterus on fertility? Decreased"
"Bicornuate uterus is an anomaly of the uterus due to incomplete lateral fusion of Müllerian ducts"
"Uterus didelphys is an anomaly of the uterus due to complete failure of lateral fusion of the müllerian ducts, leading to double uterus, vagina, and cervix"
"Is pregnancy possible in a patient with uterus didelphys? Yes"
"The male glans penis is homologous to the female glans clitoris, which both arise from the genital tubercle"
"The male corpus cavernosum and spongiosum are homologous to the female vestibular bulbs, which both arise from the genital tubercle"
"The male bulbourethral glands (of Cowper) are homologous to the female greater vestibular glands (of Bartholin), which both arise from the urogenital sinus"
"The male prostate gland is homologous to the female urethral and paraurethral glands (of Skene), which both arise from the urogenital sinus"
"The male ventral shaft of penis (penile urethra) is homologous to the female labia minora, which both arise from the urogenital folds"
"The male scrotum is homologous to the female labia majora, which both arise from the labioscrotal swelling"
"Hypospadias is the abnormal opening of the penile urethra on the ventral surface of the penis due to failure of urethral folds to fuse"
"Epispadias is the abnormal opening of the penile urethra on the dorsal surface of the penis due to faulty positioning of the genital tubercle"
"Which congenital penile abnormality (hypospadias or epispadias) is more common? Hypospadias"
"The congenital penile abnormality epispadias is associated with exstrophy of the bladder"
"The congenital penile abnormality hypospadias is associated with inguinal hernia and cryptorchidism"
"What is the male remnant of the processus vaginalis? Tunica vaginalis"
"What is the female remnant of the processus vaginalis? None (obliterated)"
"What is the male remnant of the gubernaculum? Scrotal ligament (anchors testes within scrotum)"
"What is the female remnant of the gubernaculum? Ovarian ligament + round ligament of uterus::2"
"What is the venous drainage of the left ovary/testis? Left gonadal vein -> left renal vein -> IVC"
"What is the venous drainage of the right ovary/testis? Right gonadal vein -> IVC"
"What complication arises more often in the left testis than the right due to its venous drainage? Varicocele"
"What lymph nodes do the ovaries/testes drain into? Para-aortic lymph nodes"
"What lymph nodes do the glans penis, clitoris, and penile urethra drain into? Deep inguinal nodes"
"What lymph nodes do the prostate, cervix, corpus cavernosum, inferior bladder, and proximal vagina drain into? Internal iliac nodes"
"What lymph nodes do the vulva, scrotum, distal anus, and distal vagina drain into? Superficial inguinal nodes"
"What lymph nodes do the body of the uterus, cervix, and superior bladder drain into? External iliac nodes"
"The parasympathetic nervous system is responsible for the male erection (tumescence) via the pelvic (S2-S4) nerve"
"Which substance is generated in response to PNS innervation via the pelvic nerve to mediate an erection? Nitric oxide (NO), which causes increased cGMP"
"The sympathetic nervous system is responsible for emission of semen via the Hypogastric nerve (T11-L2)::root nerve"
"Which substance is released by the SNS to inhibit an erection (detumesecence)? Norepinephrine"
"The sympathetic nervous system is responsible for sperm emission (testes to prostatic urethra) via the hypogastric nerve"
"The somatic nervous system is responsible for sperm expulsion via the pudendal nerve"
"PDE-5 inhibitors such as sildenafil (viagra) cause decreased cGMP breakdown, thus maintaining an erection"
"Mittelschmerz is transient mid-cycle ovulatory pain that may mimic appendicitis"
"The Apgar score is an assessment of newborn vital signs following labor via a 10-point scale evaluated at 1 minute and 5 minutes"
"Low birth weight is defined as less than 2500 grams (5.5 pounds)"
"Breast milk is the ideal nutrition for infants < 6 months old"
"Exclusively breastfed infants require vitamin D supplementation"
"Breastfeeding reduces maternal risk of breast and ovarian cancer"
"What is the effect of smoking on the onset of menopause (earlier, later)? Earlier onset"
"Very elevated levels of FSH is specific for menopause"
"Menopause is associated with increased levels of FSH, LH, and GnRH with decreased levels of estrogen"
"Menopause before age 40 suggests primary ovarian insufficiency"
"The symptoms/complications of menopause may be remembered with the mnemonic \HAVOCS\\": H: Hot flashes"
"The source of estrogen after menopause becomes peripheral conversion of androgens"
"Menopause is due to decreased estrogen production due to age-linked decline in the number of ovarian follicles"
"Estrogen/progesterone replacement therapy may be used to minimize the symptoms of menopause"
"Menopause is less symptomatic in obese women due to increased levels of estrogen"
"Menopause is usually preceded by 4-5 years of abnormal menstrual cycles"
"Menopause is diagnosed by amenorrhea for at least 12 months"
"The Tanner stages of sexual development are assigned independently to genitalia, pubic hair, and breast"
"In Tanner stage I, a person is pre-pubertal (childhood) with no pubic hair and a flat chest"
"In Tanner stage II, pubic hair appears (pubarche), breast buds form (thelarche), and testicular enlargement occurs"
"In Tanner stage III, the pubic hair coarsens, the penis size increases, and the breast enlarges"
"In Tanner stage IV, the penis width and glans increases and the breast enlarges with raised areola"
"In Tanner stage V (adulthood) the penis and testis enlarge to adult size and the areola flattens"
"The vulva anatomically includes the skin and mucosa of the female genitalia external to the hymen (labia majora, labia minora, mons pubis, and vestibule)"
"A(n) bartholin cyst is a cystic dilation of the bartholin gland"
"The bartholin gland is present on each side of the vaginal canal and produces mucus-like fluid that drains via ducts into the lower vestibule"
"Bartholin cysts arise due to inflammation and obstruction of the bartholin gland"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with Bartholin cysts? Women of reproductive age"
"A(n) bartholin cyst presents as a unilateral, painful cystic lesion at the lower vestibule adjacent to the vaginal canal"
"Condyloma is a warty neoplasm of genital skin, often caused by low-risk HPV strains, and is often large"
"What is the most common cause of condyloma accuminata? HPV (esp. types 6 and 11)"
"Condyloma acuminata is caused by HPV types 6 and 11"
"Condyloma latum is caused by secondary syphilis"
"Histologically, HPV-associated condylomas are characterized by koilocytes"
"The following image shows koilocytic change, which appears as a wrinkled nucleus and is characteristic of HPV infection"
"Condylomas rarely::frequency progress to carcinoma"
"Lichen sclerosus is characterized by thinning of the epidermis and fibrosis (sclerosis) of the dermis"
"Lichen sclerosus presents as leukoplakia with parchment-like (thin) vulvar skin"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with lichen sclerosus? Postmenopausal women::pre- or post-menopausal women"
"Does lichen sclerosus present with increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma? Yes, slightly increased risk"
"Does lichen simplex chronicus present with increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma? No"
"Lichen sclerosus and lichen simplex chronicus are both generally benign::malignant potential"
"Lichen simplex chronicus is hyperplasia of vulvar squamous epithelium"
"Lichen simplex chronicus presents as leukoplakia with thick, leathery vulvar skin"
"Lichen simplex chronicus is associated with chronic irritation/inflammation and scratching"
"Vulvar carcinoma arises from the squamous epithelium lining the vulva"
"Vulvar carcinoma presents as leukoplakia; a biopsy may be required to distinguish carcinoma from other causes (e.g. lichen sclerosus and lichen simplex chronicus)"
"Vulvar carcinoma may be caused by two pathways: HPV related or non-HPV related"
"HPV-related vulvar carcinoma is most commonly due to HPV types 16 and 18 (high risk)"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with HPV related vulvar carcinoma? Women of reproductive age (< 50 years old)::age"
"HPV-related vulvar carcinoma arises from vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN), a dysplastic precursor lesion characterized by koilocytic change, disordered cellular maturation, nuclear atypia, and increased mitotic activity"
"Non-HPV related vulvar carcinoma arises, most often, from long-standing lichen sclerosus"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with non-HPV related vulvar carcinoma? Elderly women (average age >70 years)"
"Paget disease (of the vulva and nipple) is characterized by malignant epithelial cells in the epidermis"
"Paget disease (of the vulva and nipple) presents as erythematous, pruritic, ulcerated skin"
"Does extramammary paget disease of the vulva often present with underlying carcinoma? No"
"Does paget disease of the nipple often present with underlying carcinoma? Yes"
"Extramammary paget disease must be distinguished from melanoma, which rarely can occur on the vulva"
"Extramammary paget disease of the vulva may be distinguished from melanoma by the following immunohistological features: 1. PAS +::+/- 2. Keratin +::+/- 3. S100 -::+/-"
"Melanoma may be distinguished from extramammary paget disease of the vulva by the following immunohistological features: 1. PAS -::+/- 2. Keratin -::+/- 3. S100 +::+/-"
"The following image shows large cells in the epidermis with a clear halo, which are characteristic of Paget disease"
"Mucosa of the vagina is lined by non-keratinized stratified squamous epithelium"
"What embryological structure is the lower (distal) 2/3rd of the vaginal canal derived from? Urogenital sinus"
"The normal fetal epithelium of the lower 2/3rd of the vaginal canal is squamous epithelium"
"What embryological structure is the upper (proximal) 1/3rd of the vaginal canal derived from? Müllerian duct"
"During normal development, squamous epithelium from the lower 2/3 of the vagina grows upward to replace columnar epithelium lining the upper 1/3 of the vagina"
"Vaginal adenosis is the focal persistence of columnar epithelium in the upper 1/3rd of the vagina"
"Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma, also known as sarcoma botryoides, presents with bleeding and a(n) grape-like mass protruding from the vagina or penis of a child"
"Vaginal carcinoma is usually related to which infectious disease? HPV (high-risk strains)"
"The ectocervix is lined by non-keratinized stratified squamous epithelium"
"The endocervix is lined by simple columnar epithelium"
"The transformation zone is the squamocolumnar junction between the ectocervix and the endocervix"
"HPV is a sexually transmitted DNA virus that infects the lower genital tract, especially the cervix at the transformation zone"
"Risk of CIN depends on HPV type, which is determined by DNA sequencing"
"What are the high-risk strains of HPV? 16, 18, 31, 33::4"
"What are the low-risk strains of HPV? 6, 11::2"
"High-risk HPV strains produce E7 protein, which increases destruction of Rb"
"What is the extent of epithelial involvement by immature dysplastic cells in CIN I? Less than 1/3"
"What is the extent of epithelial involvement by immature dysplastic cells in CIN II? less than 2/3"
"What is the extent of epithelial involvement by immature dysplastic cells in CIN III? slightly less than the entire thickness of the epithelium"
"What is the percent chance of reversal back to normal cervical epithelium in CIN I? 66% reversal"
"What is the percent chance of reversal back to normal cervical epithelium in CIN II? 33% reversal"
"What is the percent chance of reversal back to normal cervical epithelium in CIN III? Slim, but still possible"
"What is the percent chance of reversal back to normal cervical epithelium in carcinoma in situ? Not possible"
"Besides for multiple sexual partners, the other major risk factors for cervical carcinoma are: - deficiency of the immune system - infection by high-risk HPV - tobacco use - early onset of sexual activity - lack of barrier contraception"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with cervical carcinoma? Middle-aged women (average age is 40-50 years)::age"
"Which subtype of cervical carcinoma (adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma) is associated with HPV? Both :)"
"The most common type of cervical carcinoma is squamous cell carcinoma (80%)"
"Advanced cervical carcinoma tumors often invade through the anterior uterine wall into the bladder, blocking the ureters"
"Hydronephrosis with post-renal failure is a common cause of death in advanced cervical carcinoma in females"
"Pap smear screening begins at age 21 and are performed every three year(s)"
"One limitation of pap smears is inadequate sampling of transformation zone resulting in false negative screening"
"What is the most common cause of hematochezia in adults? Diverticulosis"
"Growth of endometrium is estrogen driven (proliferative phase)"
"Preparation of endometrium for implantation is progesterone driven (secretory phase)"
"Asherman syndrome is secondary amenorrhea due to loss and scarring of the basalis layer of the endometrium"
"Asherman syndrome is often the result of overaggressive dilation and curettage (D&C)"
"Acute endometritis is due to a bacterial infection of the endometrium"
"Chronic endometritis is due to chronic inflammation of endometrium"
"The histology image below has lymphocytes and plasma cells in the endometrium, which is indicative of chronic endometritis"
"Common causes of chronic endometritis include retained products of conception, chronic pelvic inflammatory disease (e.g. from long-standing chlamydia), IUD, and TB"
"What is the treatment for infectious endometritis? Gentamicin + clindamycin with or without ampicillin"
"Endometrial polyps and endometrial hyperplasia can arise as a side effect of the chemotherapeutic drug tamoxifen"
"Endometriosis is the abnormal placement of endometrial glands and stroma outside the endometrial lining/cavity"
"Endometriosis often presents with dysmenorrhea and cyclic pelvic pain; it may also cause infertility"
"What is the most supported theory for the etiology of endometriosis? Retrograde menstruation"
"One theory behind the etiology of endometriosis is metaplastic transformation of multipotent cells"
"One theory behind the etiology of endometriosis is transportation of endometrial tissue via the lymphatic system"
"What is the most common site that endometriosis spreads to? Ovary"
"What is the appearance of an ovarian endometrioma? Chocolate cyst (blood-filled)"
"When endometriosis spreads to soft tissue, it appears as \gun-powder lesions\\"\""
"Endometriosis spread to the Pouch of Douglas (posterior cul-de-sac) can present with dyschezia (pain with defecation) and painful intercourse"
"Endometriosis spread to the bladder wall presents with dysuria"
"Endometriosis spread to the bowel serosa presents with abdominal pain and adhesions"
"Endometriosis spread to the fallopian tube mucosa presents with increased risk of ectopic tubal pregnancy and infertility"
"The presence of endometrial tissue (endometriosis) in the uterine myometrium is known as adenomyosis"
"Continuous (not pulsatile) GnRH agonists may be used to treat adenomyosis (endometriosis in the myometrium)"
"There is an increased risk of carcinoma at the site of endometriosis, especially in the ovary"
"Endometrial hyperplasia is the hyperplasia of endometrial glands relative to the stroma"
"Endometrial hyperplasia is usually caused by unopposed estrogen"
"Endometrial hyperplasia typically presents as postmenopausal::pre- or post-menopausal uterine bleeding"
"Endometrial hyperplasia is classified histologically based on architectural growth pattern (simple or complex) and the presence or absence of cellular atypia"
"The most important predictor for endometrial hyperplasia progression to carcinoma is cellular atypia"
"Which architectural growth pattern of endometrial hyperplasia has higher risk of progression to carcinoma? Complex::simple or complex"
"Endometrial hyperplasia has increased risk for progression to endometrial carcinoma"
"What is the most common invasive (malignant) carcinoma of the female genital tract? Endometrial carcinoma"
"In the hyperplasia pathway (75%) of endometrial carcinoma, the carcinoma arises from endometrial hyperplasia"
"In the sporadic pathway (25%) of endometrial carcinoma, the carcinoma arises in an atrophic endometrium with no precursor lesion"
"Endometrial carcinoma is a malignant proliferation of endometrial glands"
"Endometrial carcinoma often presents as post-menopausal bleeding"
"Endometrial carcinoma arises via two distinct pathways: hyperplasia and sporadic"
"Endometrial carcinoma from the hyperplasia pathway has a(n) endometrioid histology"
"Endometrial carcinoma from the sporadic pathway has a(n) serous, papillary histology"
"The average age of presentation of endometrial carcinoma from the hyperplasia pathway is 60 years old"
"The average age of presentation for endometrial carcinoma from the sporadic pathway is 70 years old"
"What mutation is common in endometrial carcinoma from the sporadic pathway? p53 mutations"
"What is a possible histological finding of serous, papillary endometrial carcinoma (sporadic pathway)? Psammoma bodies (concentric spherules with dystrophic calcification)"
"Risk factors of endometrial carcinoma from the hyperplasia pathway are related to estrogen exposure"
"Which autosomal dominant syndrome is associated with increased risk for colon, ovarian, and endometrial carcinoma? Lynch syndrome (HNPCC)"
"What is the most common tumor in females? Leiomyoma (fibroid)"
"What demographic has increased incidence of leiomyoma (fibroid)? African Americans (peak occurrence 20-40 years old)"
"Leiomyoma (uterine fibroid) is a benign neoplastic proliferation of smooth muscle arising from myometrium"
"Leiomyoma (fibroid) is related to estrogen exposure"
"Leiomyomas (fibroids) increase with pregnancy (increased estrogen) and decrease with menopause (decreased estrogen)"
"Gross examination of leiomyoma (fibroid) shows multiple, well-defined, white, whorled masses that may distort the uterus and impinge on pelvic structures"
"The histology image shows a whorled pattern of smooth muscle bundles with well-dermarcated borders, which is characteristic of leiomyoma (fibroid)"
"What is the most common symptom of leiomyoma (fibroids)? Nothing (asymptomatic)>Heavy menstrual bleeding (when symptomatic)"
"Severe bleeding from leiomyoma (fibroid) may lead to iron deficiency anemia"
"Leiomyosarcoma is a malignant proliferation of smooth muscle arising from the myometrium"
"What is the precursor lesion for leiomyosarcoma? None -- arises de novo; leiomyosarcomas do not arise from leiomyomas***"
"Gross exam of leiomyosarcoma often shows a uterus with a single lesion with areas of necrosis and hemorrhage"
"An ovarian follicle consists of an oocyte surrounded by granulosa and theca cells"
"Degeneration of ovarian follicles may result in follicular cysts"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome (Stein-Leventhal syndrome)::fancy name is multiple follicular cysts in the ovary and anovulation due to hormone imbalance"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome is characterized by high::high/low LH and low::high/low FSH"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome often has a LH:FSH ratio >2"
"In polycystic ovarian syndrome, increased LH production causes excess androgen production (from theca cells), resulting in hirsutism"
"In polycystic ovarian syndrome, excess androgen (from theca cells) is converted to estrone::specific subtype in adipose tissue, which inhibits FSH secretion from anterior pituitary"
"What demographic is most commonly affected by polycystic ovarian syndrome (Stein-Leventhal syndrome)? Obese, young women"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome is a condition characterized by at least 2/3 of the following criteria: - clinical signs of hyperandrogenism - irregular periods (typically oligomenorrhea)::menstrual finding - polycystic ovaries on ultrasound"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome is associated with insulin resistance, which may cause type II diabetes mellitus 10-15 years later"
"Patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome have increased risk of endometrial carcinoma, secondary to unopposed effects of estrogen"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome presents with enlarged, bilateral cystic ovaries"
"Follicular cyst is the most common ovarian mass in young women"
"A(n) follicular cyst is a distention of an unruptured graafian follicle"
"Ovarian tumors may arise from three different cell types: 1. surface epithelium 2. germ cells (e.g. oocyte) 3. sex cord stromal tissue (e.g. granulosa & theca cells)"
"Surface epithelial tumor is the most common class of ovarian tumor (70%)"
"The two most common subtypes of ovarian surface epithelial tumors are serous and mucinous; both usually cystic"
"Ovarian cystadenoma is a benign tumor composed of a single cyst with a simple, flat lining of epithelial cells"
"Ovarian cystadenomas (surface epithelial tumors) most commonly arise in women aged 30-40 years old"
"What is the most common benign ovarian tumor? Serous cystadenoma"
"Serous cystadenoma is a benign tumor lined with fallopian tube-like epithelium; often bilateral"
"Ovarian mucinous cystadenoma is a large, multiloculated benign tumor lined by mucus-secreting epithelium"
"Ovarian cystadenocarcinoma is a malignant tumor composed of complex cysts with a shaggy lining of epithelium and invasion into the connective tissue"
"Ovarian adenocarcinomas (surface epithelial tumor) most commonly arise in women aged 60-70 years old"
"Borderline tumors have features in between benign and malignant"
"Borderline tumors have better prognosis than clearly malignant tumors, but still carry metastatic potential"
"BRCA1 mutation carriers have increased risk for serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary and fallopian tube"
"What is the most common malignant ovarian neoplasm? Serous cystadenocarcinoma"
"Mucinous cystadenocarcinoma may present with pseudomyxoma peritonei, which is an intraperitoneal accumulation of mucinous material, usually from a GI, ovarian, appendiceal tumor"
"One type of a rare ovarian surface epithelial tumor is a(n) endometrioid tumor, which is composed of endometrial-like glands and is usually malignant"
"15% of ovarian endometrioid tumors are associated with an independent endometrial carcinoma"
"One type of a rare ovarian surface epithelial tumor is a(n) Brenner tumor, which is composed of bladder-like epithelium (urothelium)"
"Brenner tumors are solid, encapsulated tumors with a yellow-tan appearance; they have \Coffee bean\\" nuclei on H&E stain\""
"Ovarian surface epithelial tumors typically present late and therefore have poor prognosis"
"Ovarian surface epithelial tumors typically present with vague abdominal symptoms (e.g. pain, fullness) and signs of compression (e.g. urinary frequency)"
"Germ cell tumors are the second most common class of ovarian tumor (15%)"
"What demographic is most commonly affected by ovarian germ cell tumors? Women of reproductive age (15-30 years old)::age"
"Cystic teratoma is a cystic tumor composed of fetal tissue derived from two or three embryologic layers (e.g. hair, teeth, bone, skin, gut, thyroid, etc)"
"In addition to immature tissue, cystic teratomas may become malignant via somatic malignancy"
"Struma ovarii is a cystic teratoma composed primarily of thyroid tissue and thus may cause hyperthyroidism"
"What is the most common malignant germ cell tumor in females? Dysgerminoma"
"A(n) dysgerminoma is an ovarian germ cell tumor composed of large cells with clear cytoplasm and central nuclei; described as \fried egg\\" cells\""
"Dysgerminoma is equivalent to its male testicular counterpart, termed a(n) seminoma"
"Dysgerminoma has a(n) good prognosis"
"What serum markers may be elevated in dysgerminoma? LDH and hCG::2"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with dysgerminoma? Adolescent females"
"What is the most common germ cell tumor in children (esp. male infants)? Endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor"
"Endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor is a malignant tumor that mimics the yolk sac"
"What serum marker is characteristically elevated in endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor? Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)"
"Endodermal sinus tumors are characterized by what histological finding (50%)? Schiller-Duval bodies (glomeruloid-like structures)"
"Choriocarcinoma is a malignant germ cell tumor composed of mononuclear cytotrophoblasts and multinuclear syncytiotrophoblasts, but with absent villi"
"Choriocarcinoma is a small, hemorrhagic tumor with early, diffuse hematogenous spread, especially to the lungs"
"What serum marker is characteristically elevated in choriocarcinoma? hCG (produced by syncytiotrophoblasts)"
"Choriocarcinoma is associated with which type of ovarian cyst? Theca-lutein cyst"
"Embryonal carcinoma is a malignant germ cell tumor of the ovary or testis composed of large primitive cells"
"What is the most common malignant ovarian sex cord stromal tumor? Granulosa cell tumor"
"Granulosa cell tumor is an ovarian sex cord stromal tumor that often produces estrogen and inhibin"
"Granulosa cell tumor predominantly affects women in their 50s::age"
"Histologically, granulosa cell tumors are characterized by Call-Exner bodies, which are granulosa cells arranged in follicle / rosette-like collections around eosinophilic fluid, resembling primordial follicles"
"Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor is a rare ovarian sex cord-stromal cell tumor that may produce androgens, thus causing hirsutism/virilization in women"
"Fibromas are benign sex cord stromal tumors of fibroblasts (bundles of spindle-shaped cells)"
"Meigs syndrome is a triad of ovarian fibroma, ascites, and hydrothorax (pleural effusion)"
"Fibroma is an ovarian sex cord stromal tumor that may present with a \pulling\\" sensation in the groin\""
"Krukenberg tumor is metastatic mucinous tumor that involves both ovaries; most commonly due to metastatic gastric carcinoma (diffuse type)::specific"
"Primary mucinous tumors of the ovary (e.g. surface epithelial tumor) are usually unilateral::unilateral/bilateral, where as Krukenberg tumors are usually bilateral"
"Pseudomyxoma peritonei is massive amounts of mucus in the peritoneum"
"Which ovarian neoplasm is characterized histologically by Schiller-Duval bodies (glomeruloid-like structures)? Endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor"
"Ectopic pregnancy is the implantation of a fertilized ovum at a site other than uterine wall"
"Ectopic pregnancy may present with a(n) lower than expected rise in the hormone hCG based on dates"
"Major complications of ectopic pregnancy are hematosalpinx (bleeding into the fallopian tube) and/or rupture"
"Spontaneous abortion is more common in patients in a(n) hypercoagulable state, such as those with antiphospholipid syndrome"
"What is most commonly the effect of teratogens during the first two weeks of gestation? Spontaneous abortion"
"What is most commonly the effect of teratogens during the weeks 3-8 of gestation? Organ malformation"
"What is most commonly the effect of teratogens after week 8 of gestation? Organ hypoplasia"
"Placenta previa is attachment of the placenta to the lower uterine segment over (or < 2 cm from) the internal cervical os"
"Placenta previa presents with painless third trimester bleeding"
"Risk factors for placenta previa include multiparity and prior C-section"
"Placental abruption may cause fetal distress and thus a(n) still birth"
"Placental abruption typically presents with abrupt, painful third trimester bleeding"
"Placenta accreta is the abnormal attachment of the placenta to the myometrium, without penetrating it"
"Gestational hypertension is a blood pressure >140/90 mmHg after the 20th week of gestation with no proteinuria, pre-existing hypertension, nor end-organ damage"
"Preeclampsia is pregnancy-induced hypertension with proteinuria or end-organ dysfunction after 20th week of gestation"
"Preeclampsia typically presents after the 20th week of gestation"
"Preeclampsia is caused by abnormal placental spiral arteries, causing endothelial dysfunction, vasoconstriction, and ischemia"
"There is an increased incidence of preeclampsia in patients with pre-existing hypertension, diabetes, chronic renal disease, and autoimmune disorders"
"Eclampsia is defined as preeclampsia with seizures"
"HELLP syndrome is a manifestation of severe preeclampsia that presents with hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets"
"What finding on blood smear is characteristic of HELLP syndrome? Schistocytes (due to thrombotic microangiopathy)"
"HELLP syndrome can lead to hepatic subcapsular hematomas, which may rupture leading to severe hypotension"
"Eclampsia and HELLP syndrome both warrant immediate delivery of the baby"
"Sudden Infant Death Syndrome is the death of a healthy infant (1 month to 1 year old) without obvious cause"
"Hydatidiform mole is an abnormal conception characterized by swollen and edematous chorionic villi with proliferation of trophoblasts only"
"Hydatidiform mole presents with uterine enlargement more than expected for the date of gestation"
"Hydatidiform mole presents with higher levels of hCG than expected for the date of gestation"
"In areas with no prenatal care, a hydatidiform mole presents in the 2nd trimester with passage of grape-like masses (large, edematous villi) through the vaginal canal"
"In areas with prenatal care, hydatidiform mole is diagnosed by routine ultrasound early in the first trimester"
"A hydatidiform mole may be detected via the absence of fetal heart sounds"
"Hydatidiform mole presents with a 'snow-storm' appearance on ultrasound"
"A(n) complete hydatidiform mole is characterized by 46 chromosomes"
"A(n) partial hydatidiform mole is characterized by 69 chromosomes"
"A(n) partial hydatidiform mole most commonly consists of 2 sperm with 1 egg"
"A(n) complete hydatidiform mole most commonly consists of 1 sperm that duplicates within a(n) enucleated egg (85%, karyotype 46, XX)"
"A(n) partial hydatidiform mole contains fetal tissue"
"A(n) complete hydatidiform mole does not contain fetal tissue"
"A(n) complete hydatidiform mole is more commonly associated with increased uterine size"
"A(n) complete hydatidiform mole is associated with very increased levels of hCG"
"A(n) partial hydatidiform mole is associated with mildly increased levels of hCG"
"A(n) complete hydatidiform mole is associated with increased risk of choriocarcinoma"
"A(n) partial hydatidiform mole is associated with very little increased risk of choriocarcinoma"
"In a(n) partial hydatidiform mole, only some villi are hydropic, and there is only partial trophoblastic proliferation around the vili"
"In a(n) complete hydatidiform mole, most villi are hydropic and there is circumferential trophoblastic proliferation around the villi"
"What is the treatment for a hydatidiform mole? Dilatation and curettage"
"After a hydatidiform mole, patients should monitor hCG levels to ensure adequate mole removal and to screen for development of choriocarcinoma"
"Early hypertension during pregnancy (before 20 weeks) is associated with a(n) hydatidiform mole"
"What type of ovarian cyst is associated with a hydatidiform mole? Theca-lutein cysts"
"Choriocarcinoma in females may arise as a complication of gestation or as a spontaneous germ cell tumor"
"Choriocarcinoma that arises as a(n) spontaneous germ cell tumor has a(n) poor response to chemotherapy"
"Choriocarcinoma that arises from gestation has a(n) very good response to chemotherapy"
"What chemotherapeutic drug is used in the treatment of a hydatidiform mole if hCG levels remain elevated after D&C? Methotrexate"
"Hypospadias is due to failure of urethral folds to close"
"Epispadias is due to abnormal positioning of the genital tubercle in men"
"Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is an STD characterized by necrotizing granulomatous inflammation of inguinal lymphatics and lymph nodes"
"Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is caused by Chlamydia trachomatis (L1-L3)"
"Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) eventually heals with fibrosis; perianal involvement may result in rectal strictures"
"Penile squamous cell carcinoma is the malignant proliferation of squamous cells of penile skin"
"What infectious pathology is associated with penile squamous cell carcinoma? High-risk HPV (2/3 of cases)"
"Penile squamous cell carcinoma is associated with a lack of circumcision (foreskin can act as a nidus)"
"One precursor lesion of penile SCC is Bowen disease, which is the in situ carcinoma of the penile shaft or scrotum that presents as leukoplakia"
"One precursor lesion of penile SCC is Erythroplasia of Queyrat, which is the in situ carcinoma of the glans of the penis that presents as erythroplakia"
"One precursor lesion of penile SCC is Bowenoid papulosis, which is an in situ carcinoma of the penis that presents as reddish papules"
"Which precursor lesion to penile SCC is more commonly seen in younger patients (40s)? Bowenoid papulosis"
"Which precursor lesion to penile SCC does not progress to invasive carcinoma? Bowenoid papulosis"
"Which three continents are associated with increased prevalence of penile squamous cell carcinoma? Asia, Africa, South America"
"Peyronie disease is the abnormal curvature of the penis due to fibrous plaque within the tunica albuginea"
"Peyronie disease is associated with erectile dysfunction"
"Ischemic priapism is a painful sustained erection lasting >4 hours"
"What blood disorder is associated with ischemic priapism? Sickle cell anemia (sickled RBCs get trapped in vascular channels)"
"What is the effect of cryptorchidism on fertility? Decreased"
"Risk of cryptorchidism is increased if a baby is born prematurely"
"What is the effect of cryptorchidism on inhibin B levels? Decreased (due to decreased Sertoli cell activity)"
"What is the effect of cryptorchidism on FSH levels? Increased"
"What is the effect of bilateral cryptorchidism on testosterone levels? Decreased"
"Orchitis is an inflammation of the testicle"
"Common infectious causes of orchitis in young adults include Chlamydia trachomatis (D-K) and Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"Common infectious causes of orchitis in older adults include E. coli and Pseudomonas"
"What is a possible viral cause of orchitis in teenage males? Mumps virus"
"Autoimmune orchitis involves the granulomatous inflammation of the seminiferous tubules of testicles"
"Testicular torsion occurs due to twisting of the spermatic cord over thin-walled veins of the scrotum"
"Testicular torsion causes hemorrhagic infarction of the testicle"
"Testicular torsion commonly presents in 12-18 year olds with sudden testicular pain, high-riding testis, and absent cremasteric reflex"
"Varicocele is caused by dilated veins in the pampiniform plexus due to increased venous pressure"
"Varicocele presents as scrotal swelling with a palpable \bag of worms\\" while standing\""
"Varicocele most commonly occurs on the left side of the body"
"Varicocele is associated with left-sided renal cell carcinoma"
"What is the effect of varicocele on fertility? Decreased"
"What imaging technique may be used to diagnose a varicocele? Ultrasound with Doppler"
"Hydrocele is due to accumulation of fluid within the tunica vaginalis surrounding the testis"
"Acquired hydrocele (\noncommunicating\\") may be secondary to infection"
"Does a hydrocele transilluminate? Yes"
"Testicular tumors may arise from either germ cells or sex-cord stroma"
"Testicular tumors present as a firm, painless testicular mass that cannot be transilluminated"
"Are testicular tumors biopsied? Why or why not? No; increased risk of seeding the scrotum"
"What is the most common class of testicular tumor (>95%)? Germ cell tumors"
"What is the most common testicular tumor? Seminoma"
"What age group is associated with testicular germ cell tumors? Men 15-40 years of age"
"Testicular germ cell tumors that are seminomas (55%) are very responsive to radiotherapy, metastasize late, and have excellent prognosis"
"Testicular germ cell tumors that are non-seminomas (43%) have variable responses to radiotherapy and metastasize early"
"Seminoma is a malignant testicular tumor comprised of large cells with clear cytoplasm and central nuclei, sometimes described as a \fried egg\\" appearance\""
"Seminoma is a testicular germ cell tumor that forms a homogenous mass with no hemorrhage or necrosis"
"In rare cases, seminomas may have elevated levels of the hormone hCG"
"Seminomas are associated with increased levels of placental ALP"
"Embryonal carcinoma is a testicular germ cell tumor that often has a(n) glandular/papillary morphology"
"Chemotherapy of an embryonal carcinoma may result in differentiation (e.g. may mature into a teratoma)"
"Embryonal carcinoma is a non-seminoma germ cell tumor and therefore has a relatively worse prognosis"
"Embryonal carcinoma may have increased levels of hCG and normal or elevated levels of AFP"
"Embryonal carcinoma is a testicular germ cell tumor that forms a hemorrhagic mass with necrosis"
"What is the most common testicular tumor in children (< 3 years old)? Yolk sac (endodermal sinus) tumor"
"Which testicular neoplasm is characterized histologically by Schiller-Duval bodies (glomeruloid-like structures)? Endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor"
"Elevated levels of hCG (e.g. choriocarcinoma) may cause gynecomastia (males) or hyperthyroidism due to homology between hCG and TSH, FSH, and LH"
"Testicular germ cell tumors often present as a(n) mixed germ cell tumor; prognosis is based on the worst component"
"Testicular sex cord-stromal tumors are composed of Sertoli cells and/or Leydig cells and are usually benign::benign or malignant"
"Leydig cell tumors are testicular sex cord stromal tumors that produce estrogens or androgens, causing gynecomastia (men) or precocious puberty (boys)"
"Leydig cell tumor is a sex cord-stromal tumor associated with characteristic Reinke crystals (eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusion) on histology"
"Sertoli cell tumor is a testicular sex cord stromal tumor comprised of tubules, usually clinically silent"
"What is the most common cause of testicular cancer in older men (>60)? Lymphoma"
"What type of lymphoma is usually the cause of testicular cancer in older men? diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (aggressive)"
"The posterior aspect of prostate is palpable by digital rectal exam (DRE)"
"The glands and stroma of the prostate are maintained by androgens"
"The glands of the prostate secrete a(n) alkaline (pH), milky fluid that is added to sperm and seminal vesicle fluid to make semen"
"Common infectious causes of acute prostatitis in young adults include Chlamydia trachomatis (D-K) and Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"Common infectious causes of acute prostatitis in older adults include E. coli and Pseudomonas"
"Acute prostatitis often presents with dysuria and fever/chills"
"A patient with acute prostatitis may have a tender, 'boggy' prostate on DRE"
"Prostatic secretions of a patient with acute prostatitis often contain WBCs with culture showing bacteria"
"Prostatic secretions of a patient with chronic prostatitis often contain WBCs with culture showing no bacteria"
"Chronic prostatitis presents as dysuria with pelvic or low back pain"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is the age-related hyperplasia of prostatic stroma and glands"
"Does benign prostatic hyperplasia increase risk of cancer? No"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia most commonly occurs in the periurethral zone (middle/lateral lobes) of the prostate"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may present with problems starting and stopping urination"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may present with impaired bladder emptying"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may present with nocturia (increased urination throughout the night)"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may present with hypertrophy of bladder wall smooth muscle with increased risk for diverticulum formation"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may present with microscopic hematuria"
"The PSA level in benign prostatic hyperplasia is often slightly elevated due to hyperplasia of prostatic glands"
"One possible complication of benign prostatic hyperplasia is hydronephrosis, due to backup of fluid into the kidney"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may be treated with a(n) non-selective α1 antagonist such as terazosin"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may be treated with a(n) selective α1A,D antagonist such as tamsulosin"
"Prostate adenocarcinoma is the malignant proliferation of prostatic glands"
"Which form of cancer is the 2nd most common cause of cancer death in men? Prostate cancer"
"What ethnicity is associated with increased risk for prostate adenocarcinoma? African Americans > Caucasians > Asians"
"A diet high in saturated fat may increase risk for prostate adenocarcinoma"
"Prostatic adenocarcinoma most commonly occurs in the posterior periphery of the prostate"
"Screening for prostatic adenocarcinoma begins at 50 with digital rectal exam and PSA"
"PSA > 10 ng/dl is worrisome at any age and may be indicative of prostatic adenocarcinoma"
"A decreased % of which form of PSA is suggestive of prostatic adenocarcinoma? Free-PSA (cancer makes bound-PSA)"
"A(n) prostatic biopsy is required to confirm the presence of prostatic adenocarcinoma (cannot use PSA levels alone)"
"Prostatic adenocarcinoma is characterized by small glands that infiltrate normal tissue and nuclei that contain dark nucleoli"
"Prostatic adenocarcinoma may be graded using the Gleason grading system"
"The Gleason grading system (for prostatic adenocarcinoma) is based on architecture, not nuclear atypia"
"A higher score using the Gleason grading system (for prostatic adenocarcinoma) is associated with a(n) worse prognosis"
"Which two serum markers are often elevated in prostatic adenocarcinoma? PSA and PAP (prostatic acid phosphatase)"
"Which serum marker may be elevated due to metastasis of prostatic adenocarcinoma to bone? Alkaline phosphatase (ALP)"
"Prostatic adenocarcinoma often has osteoblastic::type metastases, which is indicated by lower back pain"
"If prostatic adenocarcinoma has not metastasized (i.e. local disease), it may be treated with prostatectomy"
"Prostatic adenocarcinoma may be treated with GnRH analogs (e.g. leuprolide) and/or androgen receptor inhibitors (e.g. flutamide)"
"Breast tissue is a modified sweat gland that is embryologically derived from skin"
"Breast tissue can develop anywhere along the milk line, which runs from the axilla to the vulva (e.g. supernumerary nipples)"
"The terminal duct-lobular unit (TDLU) is the functional unit of the breast; lobules make milk that drains via ducts to nipple"
"The lobules and ducts of breast tissue are lined by two::# layers of epithelium"
"The inner cell layer of breast tissue is the luminal (epithelial) cell layer"
"The luminal (epithelial) cell layer of breast tissue is responsible for milk production in the lobules"
"The outer cell layer of breast is the myoepithelial cell layer"
"The myoepithelial cell layer of breast tissue is responsible for propelling milk towards the nipple"
"During pregnancy, breast lobules undergo hyperplasia"
"After menopause, breast tissue undergoes atrophy"
"Lobules and small ducts of breast tissue are present in highest density in the upper outer quadrant"
"Galactorrhea refers to milk production outside of lactation"
"Is galactorrhea a symptom of breast cancer? No!"
"Acute (lactational) mastitis is due to a bacterial infection of breast, usually Staphylococcus aureus"
"Acute (lactational) mastitis is associated with breast feeding"
"Acute (lactational) mastitis presents as a warm, erythematous breast with purulent nipple discharge"
"Treatment for acute (lactational) mastitis is continued drainage (e.g. feeding) plus antibiotics (e.g. dicloxacillin)"
"Periductal mastitis is inflammation of subareolar ducts"
"Periductal mastitis is usually seen in smokers"
"Periductal mastitis occurs due to a relative vitamin A deficiency, which results in squamous metaplasia of lactiferous ducts"
"Periductal mastitis presents as a subareolar mass with nipple retraction due to pull from myofibroblasts during healing"
"Mammary duct ectasia is inflammation with dilation of the subareolar duct"
"Mammary duct ectasia presents with a periareolar green-brown nipple discharge (inflammatory debris)"
"Mammary duct ectasia is associated with chronic inflammation with plasma cells seen on biopsy"
"Mammary duct ectasia classically arises in multiparous (parity), post-menopausal women"
"Fat necrosis of breast tissue is usually related to trauma, but a history of such is not always reported"
"Fat necrosis of breast tissue presents as a painless mass on physical exam"
"Fat necrosis of breast tissue presents as a(n) calcified oil cyst::specific on mammography"
"Biopsy of breast tissue with fat necrosis shows necrotic fat with associated calcifications and giant cells"
"Fibrocystic changes are the most common changes in pre-menopausal breast"
"Fibrocystic change presents as a 'lumpy' breast that may be painful"
"Fibrocystic change of the breast presents as cysts with a(n) blue-domed appearance on gross exam"
"Fibrocystic changes of the breast generally are benign::benign or malignant"
"Some fibrocystic-related changes carry increased risk for invasive carcinoma, which applies to both breast(s)"
"What is the relative risk of developing invasive breast carcinoma with fibrosis and cysts (fibrocystic changes)? No increased risk"
"What is the relative risk of developing invasive breast carcinoma with apocrine metaplasia (fibrocystic changes)? No increased risk**"
"Sclerosing adenosis is an increase in acini (ducts) and stromal fibrosis of breast tissue, which may be seen as calcifications on mammogram"
"What is the relative risk of developing invasive breast carcinoma with sclerosing adenosis (fibrocystic changes)? 1.5-2x increased risk"
"Epithelial/ductal hyperplasia is an increased number of cells in the terminal ductal or lobular epithelium of the breast"
"What is the relative risk of developing invasive breast carcinoma with epithelial hyperplasia (fibrocystic changes)? 1.5-2x increased risk"
"What is the relative risk of developing invasive breast carcinoma with atypical epithelial hyperplasia (fibrocystic changes)? 5x increased risk"
"Intraductal papilloma is a small papillary proliferation within lactiferous ducts, typically beneath the areola of the breast"
"Which type(s) of cells line the fibrovascular projections of an intraductal papilloma of the breast? Both epithelial (luminal) and myoepithelial cells"
"Intraductal papilloma of the breast typically presents as a(n) bloody nipple discharge in a(n) pre-menopausal woman"
"What is the most common cause of nipple discharge (serous or bloody)? Intraductal papilloma (often bloody)"
"Which type(s) of cells line the fibrovascular projections of a papillary carcinoma of the breast? Only epithelial cells; no myoepithelial cells"
"Papillary carcinoma of the breast typically presents as a(n) bloody nipple discharge in a(n) post-menopausal woman"
"Fibroadenoma is a benign small, well-defined mobile breast mass composed of fibrous tissue and glands"
"What is the most common benign neoplasm of breast? Fibroadenoma"
"Fibroadenoma is most common in women under 35 years old"
"Size and tenderness of a fibroadenoma of the breast increases with exposure to estrogen"
"Does fibroadenoma increase risk of breast cancer? No (benign)"
"Phyllodes tumor is a fibroadenoma-like tumor with overgrowth of the fibrous component, causing 'leaf-like' projections"
"Phyllodes tumor is most commonly seen in post-menopausal women"
"Can Phyllodes tumor increase risk of breast cancer? Yes, some may be malignant"
"Malignant breast tumors most commonly occur in post-menopausal women"
"What is the most common location for an invasive breast tumor? Upper-outer quadrant of the breast"
"Risk factors for developing breast cancer are generally associated with increased estrogen exposure"
"Increased risk of developing breast cancer is associated with a(n) older::younger/older age at first live birth"
"What is the effect of obesity on risk of developing breast cancer? Why? Increased, due to increased estrone production from adipose tissue"
"Increased risk for breast carcinoma is associated with early menarche and late menopause"
"Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is the malignant proliferation of cells in the ducts of the breast with no invasion of the basement membrane"
"Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is detected as microcalcifications on mammography"
"Mammographic calcifications can be associated with benign conditions such as sclerosing adenosis (fibrocystic change) and fat necrosis"
"Comedocarcinoma is a subtype of DCIS (breast) that is characterized by high-grade cells with dystrophic calcification in the center of ducts immediately surrounded by central necrosis"
"Paget's disease is ductal carcinoma in situ that extends up the ducts to the skin of the nipple"
"Paget's disease (of the nipple) presents as nipple ulceration and erythema"
"Paget's disease of the nipple is almost always associated with an underlying carcinoma (e.g. DCIS)"
"The following image shows malignant epithelial cells in the epidermis of the nipple, which is representative of Paget's disease"
"What is the most common type of breast cancer? Invasive ductal carcinoma (~75% of all breast cancers)"
"Invasive ductal carcinoma presents on physical exam with a firm, fibrous \rock-hard\\" mass with sharp margins\""
"Invasive ductal carcinoma classically forms duct-like structures"
"Invasive ductal carcinoma presents as mass detected by physical exam (> 2cm) or mammography (> 1cm)"
"Invasive ductal carcinoma may present, grossly, with classic \stellate\\" infiltration\""
"Advanced invasive ductal carcinoma tumors may result in dimpling of skin or retraction of the nipple"
"One subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast) is tubular carcinoma, which produces tubules in a desmoplastic stroma"
"Tubular carcinoma can be differentiated from normal breast tissue by lack of myoepithelial cells and presence of desmoplastic stroma"
"What is the prognosis of the tubular carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast)? Good"
"The following image represents the tubular carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma:"
"One subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast is mucinous carcinoma, which is characterized by malignant cells floating in 'pools of mucus'"
"What is the prognosis of the mucinous carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast)? Good"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with the mucinous carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast)? Elderly women (average 70)"
"The following image represents the mucinous carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma:"
"What is the prognosis of the medullary carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast)? Good"
"One subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast) is medullary carcinoma, which is characterized by large, high-grade malignant cells growing in sheets with lymphocytic infiltrate"
"There is an increased incidence of medullary carcinoma of the breast (a subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma) in patients with BRCA1 mutations"
"One subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast) is inflammatory carcinoma, which is characterized by an erythematous and swollen breast that does not resolve with antibiotics"
"Inflammatory carcinoma, a subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma, is characterized by cancer within dermal lymphatics"
"What is the prognosis of the inflammatory carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast)? Poor (50% survival at 5 years)"
"What other clinical pathology is inflammatory carcinoma of the breast often mistaken with? Acute mastitis"
"The following image represents the inflammatory carcinoma subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma (breast): hint: the circled area is lymphatics"
"The gross appearance of inflammatory breast cancer is often described as resembling a(n) orange peel (Peau d'orange) (due to invasion of lymphatic spaces)"
"Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is the malignant proliferation of cells in the lobules of the breast with no invasion of the basement membrane"
"Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is often discovered incidentally; does not produce mass or calcification"
"Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is a non-invasive breast cancer characterized by dyscohesive cells due to lack of E-cadherin protein"
"Lobular carcinoma in situ is treated with anti-estrogenic drugs (e.g. tamoxifen) to reduce risk of subsequent carcinoma"
"Which type of invasive breast carcinoma is characterized as often being bilateral with multiple lesions in the same location? Invasive lobular carcinoma"
"Invasive lobular carcinoma grows in a(n) single-file pattern due to lack of E-cadherin"
"The following image represents invasive lobular carcinoma (breast):"
"What is the most important factor in determining prognosis of breast cancer? Metastasis"
"What is the most useful factor in determining prognosis of breast cancer? Spread to axillary lymph nodes"
"How is axillary lymph node involvement assessed when looking for spread of breast cancer? Sentinel node biopsy"
"Presence or absence of which three receptors or genes are most important in predicting response to treatment of breast cancer? estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and Her2/neu amplification"
"Breast cancer that is ER+ and PR+ is most likely to respond to anti-estrogenic agents such as tamoxifen"
"Breast cancer that has Her2/neu amplification is associated with good response to trastuzumab (herceptin)"
"Breast Cancer Assessment: The following is an immunohistochemical stain for the estrogen receptor, which is located in nuclei"
"Breast Cancer Assessment: The following is an immunohistochemical stain for the HER-2 (c-erbB2) receptor, which is located on the cell membrane"
"'Triple-Negative' breast cancer is negative for ER, PR, and HER2/neu and has a(n) poor prognosis"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with triple negative breast cancer? African American women"
"What are the two single most important gene mutations associated with hereditary breast cancer? BRCA1 and BRCA2"
"Females with BRCA1 mutations have increased risk for which types of cancer? Breast, ovarian, and fallopian tube::3"
"BRCA2 mutation is associated with breast carcinoma in males"
"If a women undergoes prophylactic mastectomy, can she still develop breast cancer? Yes, there is a small chance due to small amounts of remaining breast tissue"
"Male breast cancer most commonly presents as a(n) subareolar mass in older males"
"What type of breast cancer is most common in males? invasive ductal carcinoma"
"At what week does the genitalia of a developing fetus begin to show male/female characteristics? Week 10"
"Craniopharyngioma is a benign tumor of Rathke's pouch that is filled with cholesterol crystals and calcifications"
"Dizygotic (“fraternal”) twins arise from 2 eggs that are separately fertilized by 2 different sperm"
"Dizygotic (“fraternal”) twins will have 2 separate amniotic sacs and 2 separate placentas (chorions)"
"Monozygotic (“identical”) twins arise from 1 fertilized egg (1 egg + 1 sperm) that splits in early pregnancy"
"If the developing embryo splits in the 2-cell stage (0-4 days), the twins will be di::mono/di-chorionic and di::mono/di-amniotic"
"If the developing embryo splits in the morula stage (4-8 days), the twins will be mono::mono/di-chorionic and di::mono/di-amniotic"
"If the developing embryo splits in the blastocyst stage (8-12 days), the twins will be mono::mono/di-chorionic and mono::mono/di-amniotic"
"If the developing embryo splits after the embryonic disc is formed (>13 days), the twins will be conjoined"
"The umbilical vein supplies oxygenated blood from the placenta to the fetus"
"The umbilical vein drains oxygenated blood into the fetal IVC via the liver or ductus venosus"
"The umbilical arteries return deoxygenated blood from the fetus to the placenta"
"There is one umbilical vein(s) and two umbilical artery (arteries)"
"Presence of one umbilical artery is associated with congenital and chromosomal anomalies"
"Umbilical arteries and veins are derived from the allantois"
"During the 3rd week of development, the yolk sac forms the allantois, which extends into the urogenital sinus"
"The allantois becomes the urachus, which is a duct between the fetal bladder and the umbilicus"
"The vitelline duct is a duct that connects the embryonic yolk sac to the midgut lumen"
"During the 7th week of development, the obliteration of the vitelline duct (omphalo-mesenteric duct) occurs"
"If the vitelline duct COMPLETELY fails to close, a vitelline fistula (persistent vitelline duct) develops, which is characterized by meconium discharge from the umbilicus"
"If the vitelline duct only closes partially, a(n) Meckel diverticulum develops, with the patent portion attached to the ileum"
"The Infundibulopelvic Ligament connects the ovaries to the lateral pelvic wall"
"What vasculature is contained in the suspensory ligament of the ovary (infundibulopelvic ligament)? Ovarian vessels"
"The Cardinal ligament connects the cervix to the side wall of the pelvis and contains the uterine vessels"
"The uterine arteries are contained in the cardinal ligament, which themselves are formed via anterior division of the internal iliac arteries"
"The round ligament of the uterus connects the uterine horn (fundus) to the labia majora"
"What female structure is a derivative of the gubernaculum and travels through the inguinal canal? Round ligament of the uterus"
"The broad ligament connects the ovaries, uterus, and fallopian tubes to the pelvic side wall"
"What three folds make up the broad ligament in females? Mesosalpinx, mesometrium, and mesovarium"
"The ovarian ligament connects the medial pole of the ovary to the lateral uterus"
"What is the fibrous capsule that surrounds the seminiferous tubules in the testis? Tunica albuginea"
"The membranous segment of the urethra is prone to injury from pelvic fracture"
"Injury to the posterior membranous urethra (e.g. pelvic fracture) can cause urine to leak into the retropubic space"
"The bulbar and penile urethra are at risk of damage with perineal straddle injuries"
"Injury to the anterior penile urethra (e.g. perineal straddle injury) can cause urine to leak beneath the deep fascia of Buck"
"Polyhydramnios is the presence of too much amniotic fluid and may be associated with fetal malformations (e.g. esophageal or duodenal atresia due to inability to swallow)"
"Oligohydramnios is too little amniotic fluid, and may be associated with bilateral renal agenesis or posterior urethral valves (males)"
"What is the most common gynecologic cancer worldwide? Cervical (due to lack of screening or HPV vaccination)"
"Which gynecologic cancer (endometrial, cervical, ovarian) has the worst prognosis? Ovarian"
"Premature ovarian failure presents with symptoms of menopause after puberty but before age 40"
"What is the most common mechanism of chromosomal aneuploidy? Meiotic nondisjunction"
"Klinefelter syndrome is most commonly characterized by a(n) 47,XXY karyotype"
"Which sex chromosome disorder is associated with gynecomastia, female hair distribution, tall/long extremities and eunuchoid body shape in a male? Klinefelter syndrome (47,XXY)"
"What is the level of testosterone in a patient with Klinefelter syndrome? Decreased (seminiferous tubule dysgenesis, abnormal Leydig cell function)"
"What is the level of estrogen in a patient with Klinefelter syndrome? Increased"
"Klinefelter syndrome is associated with testicular atrophy::size"
"Which sex chromosome disorder is associated with short stature, shield chest, and webbed neck in a female? Turner syndrome"
"What is the most common cause of primary amenorrhea? Turner's syndrome"
"What is the level of estrogen in a patient with Turner syndrome? Decreased (due to ovarian dysgenesis)"
"Turner syndrome is associated with preductal coarctation of the aorta, which may present as a femoral pulse less than brachial pulse"
"Double Y males are characterized by a(n) 47,XYY karyotype"
"How do double Y males (XYY) appear phenotypically? Normal, very tall"
"Ovotesticular disorder of sex development, also known as true hermaphroditism, is the presence of both ovarian and testicular tissue"
"Placental aromatase deficiency is the inability to synthesize estrogens from androgens"
"Placental aromatase deficiency results in masculinization of female (46,XX) infants"
"Placental aromatase deficiency can present with maternal virilization during pregnancy"
"Androgen insensitivity syndrome is due to a defect in the androgen receptor, which results in a normal-appearing female that is genotypically XY"
"A testosterone-secreting tumor (or exogenous steroids) presents with increased testosterone and decreased LH"
"Primary hypogonadism presents with decreased testosterone/estrogen and increased LH"
"Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism presents with decreased testosterone/estrogen and decreased LH & FSH"
"Kallmann syndrome is characterized by a defective migration of GnRH cells and defective formation of the olfactory bulb"
"Kallmann syndrome presents as infertility in males and amenorrhea in females; anosmia may be present in both sexes"
"Turner syndrome is most commonly characterized by a(n) 45,XO karyotype"
"In 5-alpha-reductase deficiency, there are normal levels of testosterone and normal/increased levels of LH"
"Alendronate, pamidronate, zoledronate are all examples of bisphophonates, which are the first line treatment for osteoporosis"
"Bisphosphonates have a chemical structure similar to pyrophosphate"
"Bisphosphonates bind to hydroxyapatite in bone, inhibiting osteoclast activity"
"When bound to bisphosphonate, Osteoclasts are unable to adhere to the bony surface, thus decreasing their activity"
"Bisphosphonates decrease the development and recruitment of osteoclast precursors"
"In addition to decreasing osteoclast activity, bisphosphonates also may induce osteoclast apoptosis"
"Which two drugs are useful in the acute treatment of hypercalcemia of malignancy? Bisphosphonates and calcitonin"
"Bisphosphonates and calcitonin are useful in the management of Paget disease, which is characterized by uncontrolled osteoclast resorption with secondary disorganized bone formation"
"Oral bisphosphonates may cause upper GI side effects"
"What osteoporosis drug has side effects that include acid reflux, esophagitis, and esophageal ulcers? Bisphosphonates (oral)"
"One rare side effect of bisphosphonates and denosumab is osteonecrosis of the jaw (rare)"
"As a result of decreased osteoclast activity, bisphosphonates may cause hypo-calcemia"
"Selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) are a class of drugs that are useful in the treatment and prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis"
"Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that has estrogen agonist activity on bone"
"Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that has estrogen antagonist activity on breast and uterus"
"Chronic exposure of PTH stimulates osteoblasts to express RANKL, which binds to RANK on osteoclast surfaces to increase activity"
"Denosumab is a monoclonal antibody against RANKL, useful in the treatment of osteoporosis"
"Calcitonin promotes Ca2+ excretion by the kidney"
"One possible adverse metabolic effect of exogenous calcitonin is hypocalcemia"
"The site of action of antidiuretic hormone (ADH, vasopressin) is the collecting duct of the kidney"
"What G-protein receptor is the ADH-activated V1 receptor coupled to? Gq"
"ADH activation of the V1 receptor on vascular smooth muscle causes vasoconstriction and increased blood pressure"
"What G-protein receptor is the ADH-activated V2 receptor coupled to? Gs"
"The V2 receptor for ADH is located on the basolateral membrane of the collecting duct"
"ADH-activated V2 receptors cause translocation of aquaporin 2 channels to the renal apical membrane, causing increased reabsorption of free water"
"Extra-renal ADH-activated V2 receptors are located on the vascular endothelium"
"ADH activation of the V2 receptor on vascular endothelium causes release of von Willebrand factor (vWF) and factor VIII"
"What anti-psychotic drug is a common cause of drug-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus? Lithium"
"One class of drugs that may treat nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is thiazide diuretics, which enhances the uptake of NaCl and H2O in the proximal tubule"
"Amiloride is a K+ sparing diuretic that may be used to treat Lithium induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus"
"Amiloride is useful for the treatment of lithium-induced diabetes insipidus"
"NSAIDs, such as indomethacin, may be used to treat nephrogenic diabetes insipidus"
"Central diabetes insipidus may be treated with exogenous administration of ADH"
"Desmopressin (DDAVP), a long-acting synthetic analog of ADH, may be used to treat central diabetes insipidus"
"Desmopressin (DDAVP) has high specificity for the ADH-activated V2 receptor"
"In addition to central diabetes insipidus, desmopressin (DDAVP) may be used to treat von Willebrand disease, which is associated with increased bruisability and mucosal bleeding"
"In addition to central diabetes insipidus, desmopressin (DDAVP) may be used to treat hemophilia A, which is associated with hemarthrosis and prolonged bleeding after minor procedures"
"Desmopressin may be used to treat night enuresis (bed wetting)"
"What adverse effect may desmopressin (DDAVP) have on sodium levels? Hyponatremia"
"Exogenous ADH is useful in the management of esophageal variceal bleeding by reducing portal hypertension (via action on V1 receptors)"
"-Vaptans (tolvaptan, conivaptan) are the first line treatment for treatment of SIADH"
"What adverse effect may -vaptans (tolvaptan, conivaptan) have on sodium levels? Hypernatremia"
"What is a serious complication of vaptans (e.g. tolvaptan, conivaptan) that may occur if SIADH-induced hyponatremia is corrected too quickly? Central pontine myelinolysis (osmotic demyelination syndrome)"
"Which tetracycline may be used as a second line treatment in the treatment of SIADH? Demeclocycline"
"Which treatment for SIADH may end up causing nephrogenic diabetes insipidus? Demeclocycline"
"What adverse effects are associated with demeclocycline? Photosensitivity and abnormalities of bone/teeth (e.g. discolored teeth)::2"
"Which type of receptor is associated with growth hormone? Receptor associated tyrosine kinase"
"Through what hormone does growth hormone exert its growth promoting effects? Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)"
"What hormone is responsible for long bone growth (pubertal growth spurt)? IGF-1"
"Growth hormone stimulates the liver to produce IGF-1"
"Growth hormone has anabolic::anabolic/catabolic effects in muscle"
"Growth hormone has catabolic::anabolic/catabolic effects in adipose tissue"
"Growth hormone may be administered exogenously for the treatment of GH deficiency"
"Growth hormone is a hormone that may be used to treat Prader-Willi syndrome, an autosomal dominant genetic disease associated with growth failure, obesity, and carbohydrate intolerance"
"Growth hormone is a hormone that may be used for treatment of Turner syndrome, which is characterized by an XO genotype"
"Mecasermin is a recombinant form of IGF-1 that may be used to treat growth failure due to severe IGF-1 deficiency"
"A metabolic adverse effect of mecasermin, a recombinant IGF-1, is hypoglycemia"
"Growth hormone secreting pituitary adenoma causes acromegaly (adults) or gigantism (children)"
"Octreotide (somatostatin analog) may be used to treat acromegaly and gigantism if symptoms persist after trans-sphenoidal resection"
"What hormone analog may be used to treat VIPoma and carcinoid syndrome? Octreotide (somatostatin analog)"
"What hormone analog may be used to treat insulinoma, glucagonoma, and gastrinoma? Octreotide (somatostatin analog)"
"Octreotide, a somatostatin analog, may be useful in the management of esophageal variceal bleeding by reducing portal blood flow and variceal pressure"
"Octreotide may cause GI side effects"
"Octreotide can cause steatorrhea due to decreased pancreatic secretions and gallbladder contractility"
"Cabergoline and bromocriptine are D2 receptor agonists, which may be used to treat acromegaly by inhibiting secretion of GH from the anterior pituitary"
"In addition to treatment of acromegaly, cabergoline and bromocriptine (D2 receptor agonists) may be useful in the treatment of hyper-prolactinemia (e.g. prolactinoma)"
"Pegvisomant is a(n) GH receptor antagonist, which may be used to treat acromegaly"
"Which hormone-secreting pancreatic tumor is associated with necrolytic migratory erythema? Glucagonoma"
"Dexamethasone, hydrocortisone, and prednisone are all examples of glucocorticoids"
"Once bound (activated), the glucocorticoid receptor enters the nucleus and binds to glucocorticoid response elements to regulate gene transcription"
"What is the effect of glucocorticoids on production of phospholipase A2? Decreased (inhibition)"
"Glucocorticoids prevent production of arachidonic acid by inhibiting phospholipase A2"
"Glucocorticoids inhibit production of inflammatory prostaglandins by cyclooxygenase"
"Glucocorticoids inhibit production of inflammatory leukotrienes by lipoxygenase"
"Glucocorticoids prevent activation of T cells and B cells by inhibiting production of proinflammatory cytokines (e.g. IL-2)"
"Glucocorticoids prevent production of neutrophil adhesion molecules, causing demargination and subsequent neutrophilia"
"What is the effect of glucocorticoids on blood neutrophil levels? Increased (neutrophilia)"
"What is the effect of glucocorticoids on blood lymphocyte levels? Decreased (especially T-helper cells)"
"What is the effect of glucocorticoids on blood peripheral eosinophil levels? Decreased (reduced)"
"Glucocorticoids are useful for treating inflammatory disorders (e.g. gout, rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, IBD)"
"Glucocorticoids are useful for immunosuppressive therapy (e.g. transplant rejection prevention, treatment of autoimmune disorders)"
"What is the effect of glucocorticoids on insulin resistance? Increases resistance"
"Glucocorticoids stimulate gluconeogenesis by the liver, which may cause hyperglycemia"
"Glucocorticoids increase hepatic glycogen storage"
"Abrupt withdrawal of glucocorticoids may cause tertiary adrenal insufficiency"
"Glucocorticoids have a(n) catabolic::anabolic/catabolic effect on peripheral skeletal muscle"
"Glucocorticoids have a(n) catabolic::anabolic/catabolic effect on peripheral fat tissue"
"Glucocorticoids inhibit the proliferation of fibroblasts thus impairing the process of wound healing"
"Glucocorticoids may cause osteoporosis due to inhibition of osteoblast activity *bonus: what supplements should be taken to prevent this?"
"High-dose glucocorticoids may cause glucocorticoid-induced psychosis (e.g. hypomania, confusion, hallucinations)"
"High dose Glucocorticoids may exert mineralocorticoid effects leading to increased potassium excretion"
"Glucocorticoid use may cause candidiasis and reactivation of latent infections, such as tuberculosis"
"What type of diabetes may be induced by glucocorticoid use? Steroid diabetes"
"Glucocorticoids may cause peptic ulcers::specific as an adverse GI effect"
"Which two hormones or hormone analogs may be used for the management of esophageal variceal bleeding? Desmopressin (ADH analog) and octreotide (somatostatin analog)"
"How does minute ventilation change during pregnancy? Increased"
"What is the purpose of decreased maternal PCO2 during pregnancy? Facilitate CO2 elimination from the fetus"
"Around which weeks of pregnancy do the levels of hCG peak? weeks 8-10"
"When grading a females obstetrical status using GTPAL, what does G represent? Gravidity (the total # of pregnancies)"
"When grading a female's obstetrical status using GTPAL, what does T represent? Term deliveries (the total # of deliveries after 37 weeks)"
"When grading a females obstetrical status using GTPAL, what does P represent? Pre-term deliveries (the total # of deliveries after 20 weeks, but before 37 weeks)"
"When grading a female's obstetrical status, what does A represent? Abortions (the total # of deliveries before 20 weeks)"
"When grading a females obstetrical status using GTPAL, what does L represent? Number of living children"
"The four components of a prenatal quad screen are: 1. AFP 2. hCG 3. Estriol 4. Inhibin A"
"Compared to normal, what changes detected by a neonatal quad screen would be indicative of trisomy 21? AFP: decreased Estriol: decreased hCG: increased** Inhibin A: increased**"
"Compared to normal, what changes detected by a neonatal quad screen would be indicative of trisomy 18 (Edward syndrome)? AFP: decreased Estriol: decreased hCG: decreased Inhibin A: normal or decreased"
"Which trisomy(trisomies) are characterized by increased levels of hCG? Trisomy 21 (down syndrome)"
"Which trisomy(trisomies) are characterized by decreased levels of hCG? Trisomy 18 (Edward syndrome), trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome)"
"What is the effect of multiple gestations (e.g. twins, triplets) on hCG levels? Increased"
"Amniocentesis may be done as early as 15 to 17 weeks"
"Chorionic villus sampling may be done as early as 10 to 13 weeks"
"What is the risk of fetal loss in amniocentesis? What about chorionic villus sampling? 0.5% in amniocentesis versus 1% in CVS"
"What is a possible adverse effect associated with performing chorionic villus sampling before 9 weeks? Limb defects"
"The inability to detect neural tube defects is a downside of chorionic villus sampling when compared to amniocentesis"
"What day of fetal development is characterized by chorion formation? Day 4 (thus twins that split after day 4 are monochorionic)"
"What day of fetal development is characterized by amnion formation? Day 8 (thus twins that split after day 8 are monoamniotic)"
"The presence of 1 yolk sac with 2 fetal poles is indicative of monoamniotic twins"
"The presence of cord entanglement is indicative of monoamniotic twins"
"What is a possible complication of monochorionic twins as a result of anastamosis? Twin-twin transfusion syndrome"
"In twin-twin transfusion syndrome, the donor is anemic, pale, and has restricted growth"
"In twin-twin transfusion syndrome, the recipient is polycythemic, overloaded, and at risk for heart failure"
"Which two phospholipids are abundant in surfactant? Lecithin (phosphatidylcholine) and sphingomyelin"
"The umbilical arteries return deoxygenated blood from the fetal internal iliac arteries to the placenta"
"A(n) patent urachus occurs due to total failure of the urachus to obliterate"
"A patent urachus presents as a straw colored urine discharge from the umbilicus with erythema around the area"
"A(n) urachal cyst is due to partial failure of the urachus to obliterate, resulting in a fluid-filled cyst"
"A(n) urachal cyst presents as a fluid-filled cavity lined with uroepithelium, between the umbilicus and bladder"
"A(n) vesicourachal diverticulum is a diverticulum due to a slight failure of the urachus to obliterate"
"A vesicourachal diverticulum presents as outpouching of the bladder"
"The medial umbilical folds are remnants of the obliterated umbilical arteries"
"The median umbilical ligament is a remnant of the obliterated urachus"
"The ligamentum teres hepatis (round ligament of the liver) is a remnant of the obliterated umbilical vein"
"Invasive mole is typically the malignant progression of a(n) complete hydatidiform mole"
"Invasive moles are diagnosed by histologic evidence of villi invading the myometrium on a hysterectomy specimen"
"Causes of hypertension (e.g. cocaine, smoking, and preeclampsia) all increase the risk for placental abruption"
"Placental abruption may be diagnosed using the Kleihauer-Betke test, which looks for fetal RBC in the maternal blood"
"Vasa previa is a complication of pregnancy that occurs when fetal vessels run over, or in close proximity to, the cervical os"
"What pregnancy complication is associated with painful third trimester bleeding? Placental abruption"
"Oligohydramnios is the presence of too little amniotic fluid and may be associated with placental insufficiency, bilateral renal agenesis, and posterior urethral valves (inability to excrete urine)"
"What is the treatment for preeclampsia or eclampsia to prevent seizures? IV magnesium sulfate"
"What level of proteinuria is required to make a diagnosis of preeclampsia? ≥ 300 mg/day"
"What is the most common cause of postpartum hemorrhage? Uterine atony"
"The main causes of post-partum hemorrhage may be remembered with the \4 T's\\": 1. Uterine aTony (most common) 2. Trauma (lacerations"
"What chemotherapeutic drug is used in the treatment of an ectopic pregnancy? Methotrexate"
"Klinefelter syndrome characterized by the presence of an inactivated X chromosome (Barr body)"
"Is Turner syndrome characterized by the presence of an inactivated X chromosome (Barr body)? No (45,XO)"
"Which two breast pathologies affect the stroma of the breast tissue? Fibroadenoma and phyllodes tumor"
"What type of breast cancer may present with signet ring cells? Lobular carcinoma (both in situ and invasive)"
"Gynecomastia is defined as breast enlargement in males due to increased estrogen compared with androgen activity"
"Physiologic gynecomastia may occur in newborn, pubertal, and elderly males"
"What drugs are commonly associated with gynecomastia? Spironolactone, Hormones, Cimetidine, and Ketoconazole::4"
"Gynecomastia is associated with increased levels of estrogen (e.g. cirrhosis::liver), decreased levels of androgens (ex Klinefelter syndrome), or testicular tumors (ex. Leydig cell tumor)"
"What type of ovarian neoplasm is often described as a yellow, friable (hemorrhagic) solid mass? Yolk sac (endodermal sinus) tumor"
"Which ovarian neoplasm is most commonly associated with an increased LDH? Dysgerminoma"
"Which ovarian neoplasm is most commonly associated with an increased AFP? Yolk sac (endodermal sinus) tumor"
"Theca-lutein cysts are often associated with choriocarcinoma and hydatidiform moles"
"What is the treatment of choice for a pregnant women with hyperthyroidism in the first trimester? Propylthiouracil (PTU)"
"Propylthiouracil (PTU) is used to treat hyperthyroidism by blocking both thyroid peroxidase and 5'-deiodinase"
"Methimazole is used to treat hyperthyroidism by blocking thyroid peroxidase only"
"What is a possible skin complication associated with propylthiouracil and methimazole? Rash"
"Levothyroxine is a T4 hormone analog used to treat hypothyroidism and myxedema"
"Triiodothyronine is a T3 hormone analog used to treat hypothyroidism and myxedema"
"What is a possible off-label use of the thyroid hormone replacement therapy (e.g. levothyroxine and triiodothyronine)? Weight loss supplement"
"Which pituitary hormone is useful for stimulating labor via the induction of uterine contractions? Oxytocin"
"Fludrocortisone is a synthetic analog of aldosterone with little glucocorticoid effects"
"What drug may be used to replace mineralocorticoids in primary adrenal insufficiency? Fludrocortisone (aldosterone analog)"
"What is a possible skin complication associated with fludrocortisone? Hyperpigmentation"
"Possible adverse effects of fludrocortisone, an aldosterone analog, include edema and exacerbation of heart failure"
"What drug acts by increasing sensitivity of Ca2+-sensing receptors in the parathyroid gland? Cinacalcet"
"Cinacalcet may be used in the treatment of primary or secondary hyperparathyroidism by increasing sensitivity to Ca2+-sensing receptors"
"What adverse effect is associated with cinacalcet? Hypocalcemia (due to decreased PTH)"
"What enzyme is responsible for metabolizing sorbitol into fructose? sorbitol dehydrogenase"
"What is an adverse effect common to all antacids? Hypokalemia"
"Which antacid is associated with constipation if overused? Aluminum hydroxide"
"Which antacid is associated with diarrhea if overused? Magnesium hydroxide"
"Which antacid is associated with proximal muscle weakness and seizures if overused? Aluminum hydroxide"
"Which antacid is associated with hypophosphatemia and osteodystrophy if overused? Aluminum hydroxide"
"Which antacid is associated with hypercalcemia (milk-alkali syndrome) and rebound acid increase? Calcium carbonate"
"Antacids can affect bioavailability of other drugs by altering gastric and urinary pH"
"What drugs are characterized by binding to an ulcer base and providing physical protection? Bismuth, sucralfate::2"
"Bismuth and sucralfate may be used to increase ulcer healing"
"In addition to increased ulcer healing, bismuth and sucralfate may be used to treat travelers diarrhea"
"Sulfasalazine is a combination of sulfapyridine (anti-bacterial) and 5-aminosalicylic acid (anti-inflammatory)"
"Sulfasalazine is a combination drug that may be used to treat ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease (colitis component)"
"Sulfasalazine is activated by colonic bacteria"
"One adverse effect of sulfasalazine is reversible oligospermia"
"What is the clinical use for orlistat? Weight loss"
"A major adverse effect of orlistat is steatorrhea, which may lead to decreased absorption of fat-soluble vitamins"
"Orlistat is an inhibitor of gastric and pancreatic lipase, thus leading to decreased breakdown and absorption of dietary fats"
"Ursodeoxycholic acid (ursodiol) is a non-toxic bile acid used in the treatment of early primary biliary cirrhosis"
"Ursodeoxycholic acid (ursodiol) may be used in the prevention or dissolution of gallstones"
"Ursodeoxycholic acid acts via increasing bile secretion and decreasing cholesterol secretion/reabsorption"
"What drug may be used to treat diabetic or post-surgical gastroparesis by increasing resting tone, contractility, and LES tone? Metoclopramide (D2 receptor antagonist)"
"Does metoclopramide, a D2 receptor antagonist, influence colon transport time? No"
"How do levels of AFP change in a fetus with neural tube defects? Increased"
"Which ulcerative colitis drug is associated with reversible oligospermia? Sulfasalazine"
"A(n) nucleosome (10 nm chromatin) is negatively charged DNA wrapped around the outside of positively charged proteins called histones"
"Histones are rich in the amino acids lysine and arginine"
"What class of histone is not found as a pair in a nucleosome? H1"
"What class of histone is found outside the nucleosome and functions to condense the nucleosome together? H1"
"What classes of histones are found as a pair in the nucleosome? H2A, H2B, H3, H4::4"
"What is the function of the H1 class of histones? Condense/link the nucleosomes together"
"A(n) nucleosome is made up of a strand of DNA wrapped nearly twice around two copies of H2A, H2B, H3, and H4"
"In mitosis::cell cycle phase, DNA condenses to form chromosomes"
"What cell cycle phase do DNA and histone synthesis occur? S phase"
"What form of chromatin is highly condensed? Heterochromatin"
"What form of chromatin is less condensed? Euchromatin"
"What form of chromatin appears darker on EM? Heterochromatin"
"What form of chromatin appears lighter on EM? Euchromatin"
"What form of chromatin is transcriptionally inactive and sterically inaccessible? Heterochromatin"
"What form of chromatin is transcriptionally active and sterically accessible? Euchromatin"
"What form of chromatin do Barr bodies exist as? Heterochromatin"
"Heterochromatin is the highest order of packaging of the chromosome"
"Without H1, the nucleosome exists as 10 nm chromatin"
"With H1, the nucleosome exists as 30 nm chromatin"
"What process is used by mismatch repair enzymes to distinguish between old and new DNA strands in prokaryotes? DNA methylation"
"DNA methylation at CpG islands represses transcription"
"What process is used to genomically \imprint\\" DNA during embryogenesis? DNA Methylation\""
"Histone methylation usually reversibly represses DNA transcription"
"Histone acetylation usually activates DNA transcription"
"What process takes DNA and makes more DNA? Replication"
"What process takes DNA and makes RNA? transcription"
"What process takes RNA and makes protein? translation"
"What process takes RNA and makes DNA? reverse transcription"
"DNA is much larger::size than RNA"
"Are RNA and protein typically fragmented before analysis? No"
"Is DNA typically fragmented before analysis? Yes"
"How many ring(s) do purines have? Two"
"How many ring(s) do pyrimidines have? One"
"Which bases are purines? Adenine and guanine"
"Which bases are pyrimidines? Cytosine, uracil, and thymine"
"Which purine is characterized by an amino group at the 12 o'clock position? Adenine"
"Which purine is characterized by no amino group at the 12 o'clock position? Guanine"
"Which pyrimidine is characterized by an amino group at the 12 o'clock position? Cytosine"
"Which pyrimidine is characterized by no amino group at the 12 o'clock position AND no methyl group(s)? Uracil"
"Which pyrimidine is characterized by the presence of methyl groups, but no amino group at the 12 o'clock position? Thymine"
"Deamination of cytosine makes uracil"
"What is the difference (structurally) between thymine and uracil? Thymine has a methyl group, uracil does not"
"Which pyrimidine is found in DNA only? Thymine"
"Which pyrimidine is found in RNA only? Uracil"
"A(n) nucleoSide is a base plus a sugar (ribose or deoxyribose)"
"A(n) nucleoTide is a base plus a sugar (ribose or deoxyribose) plus phosphate"
"What is the nucleoSide that is made with adenine? Adenosine"
"What is the nucleoSide that is made with guanine? Guanosine"
"What is the nucleoSide that is made with cytosine? Cytidine"
"What is the nucleoSide that is made with uracil? Uridine"
"What is the nucleoSide that is made with thymine? Thymidine"
"Which carbon lacks a hydroxyl group in DNA strands? 2' carbon"
"DNA & RNA are made of nucleotide monophosphates connected via a(n) phosphodiester bond"
"Generally, the 3' end of DNA or RNA is a(n) hydroxyl group"
"Bases of a DNA strand are complementary and held together by hydrogen bonds"
"How many hydrogen bonds exist between a G-C base pairing? Three"
"How many hydrogen bonds exist between an A-T base pairing? Two"
"What is the effect of increased G-C content on the melting temperature of a DNA strand? Increased melting temperature"
"What amino acids are necessary for purine synthesis? Glycine, Aspartate, Glutamine::3"
"One feature of the genetic code is that it is unambiguous: each codon specifies only 1 amino acid"
"One feature of the genetic code is that it is degenerate/redundant: most amino acids are coded by multiple codons"
"One feature of the genetic code is that it is commaless, nonoverlapping: it is read from a fixed starting point as a continuous sequence of bases"
"One feature of the genetic code is that it is universal: genetic code is conserved throughout evolution"
"How many possible combinations of 3 base codons are there? 64"
"Of the 64 possible codons, how many encode amino acids? 61 (3 are stop codons)"
"How many amino acids are made from the 64 possible codons? 20"
"Which sequence of bases is a start codon (methionine) in mRNA? AUG"
"What does AUG encode for in eukaryotes? Methionine (start codon)"
"What does AUG encode for in prokaryotes? N-formylmethionine, or fMet (start codon)"
"Which three sequences of bases are mRNA stop codons? UGA, UAA, UAG"
"The origin of replication is a particular consensus sequence of base pairs in a genome where DNA replication begins"
"AT-rich sequences are found in promoters and origins of replication"
"The replication fork is a Y-shaped region along the DNA template where leading and lagging strands are synthesized"
"Which enzyme is responsible for unwinding the DNA template at the replication fork? Helicase"
"Single-stranded binding proteins prevent DNA strands from reannealing during replication"
"Which enzyme is responsible for relaxing the DNA strand by creating single- or double-stranded breaks in the DNA helix to add/remove supercoils? Topoisomerase"
"What is another name for prokaryotic topoisomerase II? DNA gyrase"
"What class of drugs inhibits prokaryotic topoisomerase II and topoisomerase IV? Fluoroquinolones"
"What chemotherapeutic drugs (2) inhibit eukaryotic topoisomerase II? etoposide/teniposide"
"Which enzyme is responsible for making an RNA primer on which DNA polymerase III can initiate replication (prokaryotes)? Primase"
"Which enzyme is responsible for elongating the DNA strand? DNA polymerase (specifically, DNA polymerase III in prokaryotes)"
"DNA polymerase must see a(n) RNA primer to bind, which is complementary and antiparallel to the polymerase"
"DNA/RNA polymerase always read in the 3' to 5' direction"
"DNA/RNA polymerase always build in the 5' to 3' direction"
"DNA polymerase pauses and checks (\proof-reads\\") via 3' -> 5' exonuclease activity\""
"Is DNA synthesis high or low fidelity? High"
"Which enzymes are responsible for removing the RNA primer in eukaryotes? RNase H and FEN-1::2"
"Which enzyme catalyzes the formation of a phosphodiester bond between Okazaki fragments? DNA ligase"
"The enzyme which adds TTAGGG::sequence to 3' ends of chromosomes to avoid loss of genetic material with every duplication is known as Telomerase"
"Which replication enzyme is a RNA-dependent DNA polymerase, and thus a major example of reverse transcriptase activity, in humans? Telomerase"
"Telomerase is a rare example where reverse transcriptase::enzyme activity occurs endogenously in humans"
"What pathology is associated with increased telomerase activity? Cancer"
"What pathology is associated with decreased telomerase activity? Progeria (premature aging)"
"RNA polymerase doesn't have to see a RNA primer to bind"
"Does RNA polymerase have 3' exonuclease activity (proof-reading)? No"
"Is RNA synthesis high or low fidelity? Low (no proof-reading)"
"Which type of DNA mutation causes the least severe damage? Silent mutations"
"Which type of DNA mutation causes the most severe damage? frameshift mutations"
"A(n) transition is type of DNA mutation in which a purine is mutated to another purine (or pyrimidine to pyrimidine)"
"A(n) transversion is a type of DNA mutation in which a purine is mutated into a pyrimidine, and vice versa"
"What class of DNA mutations are characterized by a single nucleotide change? Point mutations"
"A(n) silent mutation occurs when a nucleotide substitution codes for the same amino acid"
"A(n) missense mutation occurs when a nucleotide substitution codes for a different amino acid"
"A(n) nonsense mutation occurs when a nucleotide substitution codes for a stop codon"
"A(n) frameshift mutation occurs when there is a deletion or insertion of a number of nucleotides not divisible by 3, resulting in misreading of all nucleotides downstream"
"A mutation at a(n) splice site results in a retained intron in the mRNA, leading to a protein with impaired or altered function"
"Lac Operon: In the presence of low glucose, there is increased adenylyl cyclase activity, leading to an increase in cAMP"
"Lac Operon: Increased cAMP (low glucose) leads to activation of catabolite activator protein (CAP), which resides upstream from the promoter, causing increased transcription"
"Lac Operon: In the presence of high lactose, the repressor protein is unbound from the operator site, leading to increased transcription"
"Lac Operon: What is the expression level of the Lac genes in the presence of low glucose and lactose available? Strong expression"
"Lac Operon: What is the expression level of the Lac genes in the presence of high glucose and lactose unavailable? No expression"
"Lac Operon: What is the expression level of the Lac genes in the presence of low glucose and lactose unavailable? No expression"
"Lac Operon: What is the expression level of the Lac genes in the presence of high glucose and lactose available? Low (basal) expression"
"What mutation is induced by UV radiation? Pyrimidine dimers (e.g. thymine dimers)"
"What form of DNA repair fixes mutations induced by UV radiation? Nucleotide excision repair"
"The enzyme that recognizes and excises pyrimidine dimer mutations is excision endonuclease"
"The enzymes that repair pyrimidine dimer mutations are DNA polymerase and DNA ligase"
"What phase of the cell cycle do nucleotide excision repairs occur? G1"
"Xeroderma Pigmentosum is an inherited pathology due to a defective Nucleotide Excision Repair pathway"
"DNA replication errors lead to mismatch base mutations"
"What form of DNA repair fixes mutations due to DNA replication errors? Mismatch repair"
"Recognition and facilitation of excision of mismatched nucleotides occur via enzymes found on two genes: MSH2 (MutS) or MLH1 (MutL)"
"The enzymes that repair mismatched base mutations are DNA polymerase and DNA ligase"
"What pathology is characterized by a deficiency of the enzymes used in mismatch base repair? Lynch syndrome (hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer [HNPCC])"
"What phase of the cell cycle do mismatch base repairs predominantly occur? S"
"Deamination (e.g. cytosine to uracil) is a mutation that may occur spontaneously or due to heat or nitrates"
"What form of DNA repair fixes mutations due to spontaneous/toxic deamination? Base excision repair"
"In base excision repair, base-specific glycosylases remove the altered base and create a(n) AP (apurinic/apyrimidinic) site"
"Which base excision repair enzyme is responsible for removing nucleotides at the 5' end? AP-endonuclease"
"Which base excision repair enzyme is responsible for removing nucleotides at the 3' end? Lyase"
"Which base excision repair enzymes are responsible for filling and sealing the gap from the excised bases? DNA polymerase-β::specific (filling) and DNA ligase III::specific (sealing)"
"What phase of the cell cycle do base excision repairs occur? Throughout the cell cycle"
"Which forms of DNA repair repairs double-stranded breaks (due to ionizing radiation)? Nonhomologous end joining and homologous recombination"
"Mechanisms to repair dsDNA breaks are defective in Ataxia telangiectasia, Fanconi anemia, and SCID"
"The direction of protein synthesis is N-terminus to C-terminus"
"The triphosphate bond of DNA is the target of 3' hydroxyl attack (strand elongation)"
"Drugs that block DNA replication often have a modified 3' OH, preventing addition of the next nucleotide (\chain termination\\")\""
"Does reverse transcriptase require a primer? Yes! Because it is a DNA polymerase (RNA dependent DNA polymerase)"
"While DNA polymerase binds to a primer, RNA polymerase binds to a(n) promoter"
"The template strand is the dsDNA strand used for transcription; it is complementary and antiparallel to mRNA"
"The coding strand is the strand of dsDNA that is NOT used during transcription, but is identical to mRNA (substitute T/U)"
"Where is most of rRNA synthesized? Nucleolus"
"Where is most mRNA / tRNA synthesized? Euchromatin (nucleus)::chromatin"
"The dsDNA sequence reported in databases is the coding strand, unless specifically stated otherwise"
"Practice: If a DNA template sequence is TAGC, what is the mRNA sequence? GCUA"
"The untranslated region (UTR) of mRNA is the portion of mRNA which contains no protein information"
"Does prokaryotic mRNA have introns and exons? No"
"Does prokaryotic mRNA have post-transcriptional processing? No"
"Prokaryotic transcription terminates when there is a \stem-loop\\" sequence"
"Prokaryotic translation begins when a ribosome binds a(n) Shine-Dalgarno sequence"
"In eukaryotes, each gene has it's own promoter, to which RNA polymerase II may bind"
"The initial mRNA of eukaryotes contains introns and exons, which undergo splicing"
"Eukaryotic translation begins when a ribosome binds a(n) 7-methyl-G-cap"
"The promoter is the site where RNA polymerase II and general transcription factors bind to DNA upstream from a gene locus"
"The promoter is an AT-rich upstream sequence with TATA and CAAT boxes"
"A mutation in the promoter commonly results in a dramatic decrease in the level of gene transcription"
"Promoters serve as binding sites for general::general/specific transcription factors"
"Enhancers are stretches of DNA that increase gene expression by binding specific transcription factors"
"Silencers are sites where negative regulators (repressors) bind to DNA"
"Enhancers increase transcription via enhanced activity of the enzyme RNA polymerase II"
"Enhancers serve as binding sites for specific::specific/general transcription factors"
"Are enhancers/silencers close or far from the gene it regulates? May be close to, far from, or within the gene (in an intron)"
"Within an enhancer, there are domains known as response elements (RE), to which specific transcription factors bind"
"How can enhancers be far away from the gene it regulates? DNA will bend to bring enhancer to promoter"
"Steroid receptors are specific transcription factors that bind to steroid response elements to cause a steroid response"
"What class of protein receptor is common to all steroid hormones, thyroid hormones, and vitamins A/D? Zinc finger"
"cAMP response element binding (CREB) proteins are specific transcription factors that bind to cAMP response elements (CREs) to cause a response to cAMP"
"What class of protein receptor is common to cAMP response element binding (CREB) proteins? Leucine zipper"
"Homeodomain proteins are specific transcription factors that regulate gene expression during development"
"The genes that are responsible for the generation of homeodomain proteins are the homeobox (HOX) gene and PAX gene"
"What pathology is associated with a defective PAX gene? Klein Waardenburg Syndrome"
"What morning sickness drug (no longer used) inadvertently prevents binding of homeodomain proteins to enhancers, thus causing limb abnormalities? Thalidomide"
"Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are specific transcription factors that bind to peroxisome proliferator response elements (PPREs) causing increased peroxisome expression"
"What class of drugs acts via activation of PPAR-gamma? Thiazolidinediones"
"What class of drugs acts via activation of PPAR-alpha? Fibrates"
"Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB) is a specific transcription factor that binds kB elements, which regulates expression of many genes in the immune system"
"The glucocorticoids class of drugs acts via suppression of NF-kB signaling"
"RNA polymerase I makes rRNA"
"RNA polymerase II makes mRNA"
"RNA polymerase III makes tRNA and 5S rRNA"
"Which RNA polymerase binds to DNA at a promoter site? RNA polymerase II"
"In eukaryotes, RNA polymerase II may be inhibited by α-amanitin"
"What drug is an inhibitor of prokaryotic RNA polymerase? Rifampin"
"What drug is an inhibitor of both prokaryotic AND eukaryotic RNA polymerase? Actinomycin D"
"How many different RNA polymerases do prokaryotes have? One (makes all 3 kinds of RNA)"
"The initial (primary) transcript transcribed from eukaryotic DNA is heterogenous nuclear RNA (hnRNA)"
"Capped, tailed, and spliced hnRNA is called mRNA"
"In what part of the cell is mRNA formed? Nucleus"
"In what part of the cell is mRNA translated? Cytosol"
"One co-transcriptional modification is the addition of a(n) 7-methylguanosine cap at the 5' end"
"One post-transcriptional modification is the addition of a(n) poly-A tail at the 3' end"
"One post-transcriptional modification is the splicing out of introns"
"Does Poly-A polymerase require a template (post-transcriptional processing)? No"
"What sequence of bases represents a polyadenylation signal? AAUAAA::6"
"mRNA quality control occurs at cytoplasmic processing bodies (P-bodies), which contain exonucleases, decapping enzymes, and microRNAs"
"mRNAs may be stored in P-bodies for future translation"
"In the first step of alternative splicing, the primary transcript (hnRNA) combines with small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPS) and other proteins to form the spliceosome"
"After the spliceosome has been formed in alternative splicing, a(n) lariat-shaped (looped) intermediate is generated"
"In the final step of alternative splicing, the lariat is released to precisely remove the intron and join two exons"
"Antibodies to spliceosomal snRNPs, also known as anti-Smith antibodies, are highly specific for SLE"
"Antibodies to U1 RNP are highly associated with mixed connective tissue disease"
"Every intron has a 5' donor GU site and a 3' acceptor AG site, which are brought together to form the Lariat-shaped loop"
"Which portion of eukaryotic hnRNA contains the actual genetic information coding for protein? Exons"
"Which portion of eukaryotic hnRNA contains intervening noncoding segments of DNA? Introns"
"Different exons are frequently combined by alternative splicing to produce a larger number of unique proteins"
"One hematological pathology that is due to abnormal splicing variants is β-thalassemia"
"rRNAs are the most abundant RNAs"
"microRNAs are small, noncoding RNA molecules that post-transcriptionally regulate protein expression"
"microRNA often leads to the silencing/inactivation of target mRNA, thus causing decreased translation into protein"
"Abnormal expression of miRNAs contributes to certain malignancies (e.g. by silencing an mRNA from a tumor suppressor gene)"
"tRNAs are the smallest RNAs and have a clover-leaf structure"
"At the base of a tRNA molecule is a(n) anti-codon loop, which base pairs with a codon of mRNA in a complementary, antiparallel fashion"
"At the 3' end of a tRNA molecule is a(n) 5'-CCA-3' sequence, which is the amino acid acceptor stem"
"The T-arm of tRNA contains the TΨC sequence (ribothymidine, pseudouridine, cytidine) necessary for tRNA-ribosome binding"
"What is the function of the T-arm of tRNA? tRNA-ribosome binding"
"The D-arm of tRNA contains dihydrouridine residues necessary for tRNA recognition by the correct aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase"
"What is the function of the D-arm of tRNA? Recognition of tRNA by the correct aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase"
"tRNA is joined with its specific amino acid via the enzyme aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase"
"Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase requires ATP and releases inorganic PPi"
"A(n) mischarged tRNA reads its usual codon but inserts the wrong amino acid"
"Accurate base pairing is usually required only in the first two nucleotide positions of a mRNA codon because codons differing in the 3rd \wobble\\" position may code for the same amino acid\""
"Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase and binding of charged tRNA to the codon are responsible for accuracy of amino acid selection"
"The bond formed between an α-carboxyl group and an α-amino group of adjacent amino acids is a(n) peptide bond"
"Peptide bond formation is facilitated by the ribozyme peptidyl transferase"
"What is the smaller ribosomal subunit used in prokaryotic translation? 30s"
"What is the larger ribosomal subunit used in prokaryotic translation? 50s"
"What is the total size of the ribosome used in prokaryotic translation? 70s"
"What is the smaller ribosomal subunit used in eukaryotic translation? 40s"
"What is the larger ribosomal subunit used in eukaryotic translation? 60s"
"What is the total size of the ribosome used in eukaryotic translation? 80s"
"Eukaryotic Initiation Factors help assemble the 40s ribosomal subunit with the initiator tRNA"
"Which nucleotide triphosphate is used in the charging of tRNA? ATP"
"Where in the cell does translation begin? Cytoplasm"
"The 40s ribosomal subunit initiates translation by binding to the 7-methylguanosine cap"
"The 30s ribosomal subunit initiates translation by binding to the shine-dalgarno sequence"
"Translation is initiated by GTP hydrolysis"
"At what site of the ribosome does tRNA bind to for translation initiation? P site"
"Which tRNA binds to the P site of the ribosome to initiate translation? Methionine-tRNA"
"tRNA binds to the A site on the ribosome for elongation"
"Which nucleotide triphosphate is used in the translocation of tRNA? GTP"
"In the first step of strand elongation, a(n) aminoacyl-tRNA binds to the A site"
"After aminoacyl-tRNA binds to the A site of the ribosome, peptidyl transferase, a ribozyme, catalyzes peptide bond formation (translation)"
"In the final step of translation elongation, translocation of the ribosome occurs, advancing the ribosome 3 nucleotides towards the 3' end of mRNA"
"Translocation of the ribosome during translation moves peptidyl tRNA from the A site to the P site"
"In addition to GTP, translocation of the ribosome during translation also requires eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF-2)"
"The E site of the ribosome holds empty tRNA as it exits"
"In the final step of translation, a stop codon is recognized by release factor and the completed polypeptide is released from the ribosome"
"One example of a post-translational modification is trimming, which entails the removal of N- or C-terminal propeptides from a zymogen to generate mature protein"
"One class of post-translational modifications is covalent alterations, which include phosphorylation, glycosylation, hydroxylation, methylation, acetylation, and ubiquitination"
"A(n) chaperone protein, is an intracellular protein involved in facilitating and/or maintaining protein folding"
"What is the shortest phase of the cell cycle? M phase (mitosis + cytokinesis)"
"Which cell cycle phase is characterized by resting, non-dividing cells? G0"
"What cell type remains in G0 and can only regenerate from stem cells? Permanent::Stabile/Permanent/Labile"
"What type of cells are the following examples? Permanent::Labile, Stable, or Permanent?"
"What cell type enters G1 from G0 when stimulated? Stable (quiescent)"
"Hepatocytes, lymphocytes, PCT, and periosteal cells are examples of what cell type? Stable (Quiescent)::Labile, Stable, or Permanent?"
"What cell type never enters G0 and divides rapidly with a short G1? Labile"
"What cell type is affected most by chemotherapy? Labile (gut epithelium, skin, hair follicles, etc)"
"Which cell cycle phase is characterized by DNA synthesis and replication? S"
"Which cell cycle phase(s) are part of interphase? G1, S, G2"
"Which cell cycle phase(s) are NOT part of interphase? M"
"Transcription occurs throughout which cell cycle phases? Interphase (G1, S, G2)"
"Which tumor suppressor protein acts at the G1 check point? p53"
"What part of the cell is the site of synthesis of secretory proteins? Rough endoplasmic reticulum"
"Where in a cell does N-linked oligosaccharide addition take place? Rough endoplasmic reticulum"
"The RER in neurons, known as Nissl bodies, synthesize peptide neurotransmitters for secretion"
"What cellular structure are mucus-secreting goblet cells (small intestine) and antibody-secreting plasma cells rich in? Rough endoplasmic reticulum"
"Free ribosomes are unattached to any membrane and are the site of synthesis for cytosolic and organellar proteins"
"What part of the cell is the site of steroid synthesis and detoxification of drugs and poisons? Smooth endoplasmic reticulum"
"How can the smooth endoplasmic reticulum be distinguished from the rough ER? Smooth ER lacks surface ribosomes"
"When proteins are misfolded, multiple ubiquitins are added, which aids in trafficking to the proteasome"
"The proteasome is a barrel-shaped protein complex that degrades damaged or ubiquitin-tagged proteins"
"Defects in the ubiquitin-proteasome system have been implicated in some cases of Parkinson disease"
"Inside the proteasome, proteases cleave ubiqutinated proteins into peptide fragments"
"Which membrane-bound organelle is involved in the catabolism of very-long-chain fatty acids, branched-chain fatty acids, amino acids, and ethanol? Peroxisome"
"The golgi apparatus is the distribution center for proteins and lipids from the endoplasmic reticulum to the vesicles and plasma membrane"
"On the N terminal side of newly synthesized protein, a stretch of 10-15 hydrophobic amino acids forms the N-terminal signal sequence"
"The N-terminal signal sequence of a newly synthesized protein is bound by a(n) signal recognition particle (SRP), which attaches the complex to the ER membrane"
"Signal recognition particles (SRPs) are abundant, cytosolic ribonucleoproteins that traffic proteins from the ribosome to the RER"
"What would happen if there is absent or dysfunctional signal recognition particles (SRPs)? proteins accumulate in the cytosol"
"In the ER, co-translational N-glycosylation adds sugars onto the amino acid asparagine"
"In the Golgi apparatus, post-translational O-glycosylation adds sugars onto the amino acids serine and threonine"
"Which enzyme phosphorylates mannose in the Golgi apparatus, facilitating protein trafficking? Phosphotransferase"
"In the Golgi apparatus, mannose-6-phosphate is added to proteins for trafficking to lysosomes"
"Defective GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase causes I-cell disease (inclusion cell disease/mucolipidosis type II)"
"Endosomes are sorting centers for material from outside the cell or from the Golgi, sending it to lysosomes for destruction or back to the membrane/Golgi for further use"
"Which inherited lysosomal storage disorder is characterized by coarse facial features, clouded corneas, and restricted joint movement with high serum levels of multiple lysosomal enzymes? I-cell disease"
"I-cell disease is characterized by high plasma levels of lysosomal enzymes"
"What differentiates I-cell disease from other inclusion body diseases? I-cell has a mixed accumulation of junk forming the inclusion bodies"
"Which vesicular trafficking protein is responsible for retrograde Golgi transport (cis-Golgi and ER) and intra-Golgi transport? COPI"
"Which vesicular trafficking protein is responsible for anterograde Golgi transport (ER to cis Golgi)? COPII"
"Which vesicular trafficking protein is responsible for transport between the trans-Golgi and lysosomes? Clathrin"
"Which vesicular trafficking protein is responsible for transport between the plasma membrane and endosomes (receptor-mediated endocytosis)? Clathrin"
"Cytoskeletal elements are a network of protein fibers within the cytoplasm that support cell structure, cell and organelle movement, and cell division"
"Which type of filament is predominantly involved in muscle contraction and cytokinesis? Microfilaments (e.g. actin, microvilli)"
"Which type of filament is predominantly involved in maintainence of cell structure? Intermediate filaments (e.g. desmin, cytokeratin)"
"Which type of filament is predominantly involved in movement and cell division? Microtubules (e.g. cilia, flagella)"
"What type of filament are actin and microvilli? Microfilament"
"What type of filament are cytokeratin and desmin? Intermediate filaments"
"What type of filament are cilia and flagella? Microtubule"
"Microtubules are a cylindrical outer structure composed of a helical array of polymerized heterodimers of α- and β-tubulin"
"Each α- and β-tubulin heterodimer of a microtubule has 2 GTP bound"
"Microtubules grow slowly::speed and collapse quickly::speed"
"Which type of filament is involved in slow axoplasmic transport in neurons? Microtubules"
"Which molecular motor protein is responsible for retrograde transport to the microtubule (+ to -)? Dynein"
"Which molecular motor protein is responsible for anterograde transport to the microtubule (- to +)? Kinesin"
"Drugs that act on microtubules may be remembered with the mnemonic \Microtubules Get Constructed Very Poorly\\": M: Mebendazole (antihelminthic) G: Griseofulvin (antifungal) C: Colchicine (antigout) V: Vincristine/Vinblastine (anticancer) P: Palcitaxel (anticancer)\""
"Cilia are organized in a(n) 9+2 arrangement of microtubule doublets"
"The base of a cilium below the cell membrane, called the basal body, consists of 9 microtubule triplets with no central microtubules"
"Axonemal dynein is a(n) ATPase that links peripheral 9 doublets and causes bending of cilium (movement)"
"Kartagener syndrome is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance disease characterized by immotile cilia due to a(n) dynein arm defect"
"Kartagener syndrome results in decreased male and female fertility"
"Which developmental pathology is characterized by bronchiectasis, recurrent sinusitis, and situs inversus? Kartagener syndrome"
"What do fungal plasma membranes contain that others lack? Ergosterol"
"For each ATP consumed, the sodium-potassium pump transfers 3 Na+ out of the cell (pump phosphorylated)"
"For each ATP consumed, the sodium-potassium pump transfers 2 K+ into the cell (pump dephosphorylated)"
"The Na+-K+ ATPase pump is located in the plasma membrane with the ATP site on the cytosolic side"
"Ouabain is a cardiac glycoside that inhibits the Na+-K+ ATPase pump by binding to the K+ site"
"What class of drugs directly inhibit the Na+-K+ ATPase pump? Cardiac glycosides (e.g. digoxin)"
"What is the most abundant protein in the human body? Collagen"
"The function of collagen is to organize and strengthen the extracellular matrix"
"What type of collagen is the most common (90%)? Type I"
"What type of collagen makes up bone, skin, and tendon? Type I"
"What type of collagen makes up cartilage? Type II"
"What type of collagen makes up skin and blood vessels? Type III"
"What type of collagen makes up reticulin fibers? Type III"
"What type of collagen makes up the basement membrane? Type IV"
"The vascular type of Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome that is caused by a deficiency of type III collagen can lead to: - the formation and rupture of aneurysms - rupture of organs (ex. in women the uterus::specific organ during birth)"
"What type of collagen is decreased in osteogenesis imperfecta type I? Type I"
"What pathology is characterized by a defective type IV collagen? Alport syndrome"
"Type IV collagen is targeted by autoantibodies in Goodpasture syndrome"
"Collagen is a repeat of a tripeptide following the pattern Gly-X-Y, made by fibroblasts"
"One third of the collagen strand is made of the amino acid glycine"
"In the first step of collagen synthesis, translation of collagen alpha chains forms preprocollagen"
"Collagen Synthesis: After the collagen alpha chains are synthesized, specific residues of the amino acids proline and lysine are hydroxylated"
"Collagen Synthesis: Hydroxylation of selected prolines and lysines during collagen synthesis requires vitamin C"
"Collagen Synthesis: Following hydroxylation of proline and lysine, there is glycosylation of pro-α-chain hydroxylysine residues"
"Collagen Synthesis: After hydroxylation and glycosylation, hydrogen and disulfide bonds help form a(n) triple helix of collagen α chains (procollagen)"
"Collagen Synthesis: After the triple helix is formed, the procollagen is exocytosed into the extracellular space"
"Where in the cell does synthesis, hydroxylation, and glycosylation of preprocollagen occur? Rough endoplasmic reticulum"
"Collagen Synthesis: Once in the extracellular space, cleavage of disulfide-rich terminal regions of procollagen by procollagen peptidase forms the insoluble tropocollagen"
"Collagen Synthesis: Staggered tropocollagen molecules are reinforced by covalent lysine-hydroxylysine cross-linkages to make collagen fibrils"
"Formation of lysine-hydroxylysine cross-linkages (collagen synthesis) requires both copper and the enzyme lysyl oxidase"
"Where in the cell does the synthesis and formation of tropocollagen and collagen fibrils occur? Extracellular space"
"Which collagen synthesis pathologies are associated with problems with cross-linking? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Menkes disease::2"
"Which collagen synthesis pathologies are associated with problems forming the triple helix? Osteogenesis imperfecta and Scurvy"
"What genetic bone disorder is also known as brittle bone disease? Osteogenesis imperfecta"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta is most commonly caused by gene defects in COL1A1 and COL1A2"
"What is the inheritance of osteogenesis imperfecta (most common)? Autosomal dominant"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta may be confused with child abuse"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta is characterized by multiple recurrent fractures with minimal trauma"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta may present with blue sclerae due to translucent connective tissue over choroidal veins"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta may present with hearing loss due to abnormal ossicles"
"Some forms of osteogenesis imperfecta have tooth abnormalities, including opalescent teeth that wear easily due to lack of dentin"
"The classical type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (joint and skin symptoms) is caused by a mutation in type V collagen"
"What type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is the most common type? Hypermobility type (joint instability)"
"Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is characterized by faulty collagen synthesis causing hyperextensible skin"
"Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is characterized by faulty collagen synthesis causing hypermobile joints"
"Ehlers-Danlos syndrome may present with easy bruising and a tendency to bleed"
"The classical and vascular forms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are inherited in a(n) autosomal dominant manner"
"What is the inheritance of Menkes disease? X-linked recessive"
"Menkes disease is caused by impaired copper absorption and transport due to a defect in the ATP7A gene"
"What gene is defective in Menkes disease? ATP7A"
"The defective Menkes protein (Menkes disease) leads to decreased activity of the enzyme lysyl oxidase"
"Menkes disease results in brittle, \kinky\\" hair"
"Elastin is a stretchy protein within skin, lungs, large arteries, elastic ligaments, vocal cords, and ligamentum flava"
"Elastin is rich in non-hydroxylated proline, glycine, and lysine residues (amino acids)"
"Elastin is broken down by the enzyme elastase, which is normally inhibited by α1-antitrypsin"
"Elastin is tropoelastin with fibrillin scaffolding"
"What gives elastin its elastic \rubber-like\\" properties? Cross-linking\""
"Where in the cell does cross-linking of elastin take place? Extracellular space"
"Marfan syndrome is caused by a defect in fibrillin, a glycoprotein that forms a sheath around elastin"
"Emphysema may be caused by a(n) α1-antitrypsin deficiency, resulting in excess elastase activity in alveoli"
"Wrinkles of aging are due to decreased collagen and elastin production"
"Recombinant DNA is DNA spliced together from two sources (usually human gene + bacterial vector)"
"A(n) palindrome is a DNA sequence which reads the same backwards and forwards on opposite strands of DNA (usually 4 or 6 bp)"
"What class of enzymes cleaves nucleotides at the ends of a DNA strand? Exonucleases"
"What class of enzymes cleaves nucleotides in the middle of a DNA strand? Endonucleases"
"Cloning is the production of a recombinant DNA molecule that is self-perpetuating"
"The first step of cloning is to isolate the eukaryotic mRNA of interest"
"Cloning: Isolated mRNA is exposed to reverse transcriptase to produce cDNA (lacks introns)"
"Cloning: After cDNA is produced, cDNA fragments are inserted into bacterial plasmids, which contain antibiotic resistance genes"
"Cloning: After the recombinant plasmid has been produced, it is transformed into bacteria"
"DNA requires fragmentation for analysis, RNA and proteins do not (analyzed directly)"
"All RNA/DNA is negatively charged"
"Most proteins are negatively charged (except histones)"
"Gel electrophoresis separates fragments on the basis of size"
"When using blotting procedures, the probe determines what sequences are detected"
"A(n) Southern blot is used to analyze DNA"
"A(n) Northern blot is used to analyze RNA"
"Does a Southern blot require gel electrophoresis before analysis? Yes"
"Does a Northern blot require gel electrophoresis before analysis? Yes"
"A Northern blot is useful for studying gene expression"
"A(n) Western blot is used to analyze protein"
"What type of probe is used to bind protein when using a Western blot? Labeled antibody"
"What type of probe is used to bind DNA/RNA when using a Southern/Northern blot? Labeled single stranded DNA / RNA oligonucleotide"
"The Western blot *used to be* the confirmatory test for HIV after a positive ELISA"
"Does a Dot (slot) blot require gel electrophoresis before analysis? No!"
"A(n) Southwestern blot is used to identify DNA-binding proteins using labeled oligonucleotide probes"
"RFLP analysis analyzes DNA using variations in restriction enzyme sites between homologous DNA strands"
"Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) is a powerful diagnostic tool used to amplify a desired fragment of DNA"
"In the first step of PCR, DNA is denatured by using heat to separate the strands"
"In the second step of PCR, DNA primers anneal to specific sequences on each DNA strand to be amplified"
"In the final step of PCR, heat-stable Taq DNA polymerase elongates the DNA sequence following each primer"
"How many primers are needed for polymerase chain reaction (PCR)? Two (one for the 3' end of each DNA strand)"
"What type of primer is used in a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)? DNA primer"
"Which end of the DNA strand does the DNA primer bind to during PCR? 3' end"
"PCR requires the addition of all four deoxynucleotide triphosphates (dNTPs) for DNA synthesis"
"Flow cytometry is a laboratory technique used to assess size, granularity, and protein expression of individual cells in a sample"
"What laboratory technique is useful in determining CD4 cell count in HIV patients? Flow cytometry"
"In flow cytometry, cells are tagged with antibodies specific to surface or intracellular proteins"
"In flow cytometry, antibodies are tagged with a unique fluorescent dye, which is detected and counted during analysis"
"Flow Cytometry Example: Cells in the left lower quadrant are CD3- and CD8-"
"Flow Cytometry Example: Cells in the left upper quadrant are CD3+ and CD8-"
"Flow Cytometry Example: Cells in the right lower quadrant are CD3- and CD8+"
"Flow Cytometry Example: Cells in the right upper quadrant are CD3+ and CD8+"
"Microarrays analyze thousands of nucleic acid sequences arranged in grids on glass or silicon"
"Microarrays are a laboratory technique used to profile gene expression levels of thousands of genes simultaneously to study certain diseases and treatments"
"Microarrays use a(n) labeled DNA/RNA probe, which is hybridized to the chip, and a scanner detects the relative amounts of complementary binding"
"What two types of variations in DNA are detected when using microarrays? (DNA markers)  - Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) - Copy number variations (CNVs)"
"Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)::not Coombs is an immunologic test used to detect the presence of either a specific antigen or antibody in a patient's blood sample"
"When using ELISA, detection involves the use of a(n) antibody linked to a(n) enzyme"
"Karyotyping is a process in which metaphase::phase chromosomes are stained, ordered, and numbered according to morphology, size, arm-length ratio, and banding pattern"
"What laboratory technique is used to diagnose chromosomal imbalances? Karyotyping"
"Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) uses a fluorescent DNA/RNA probe to bind to a specific gene of interest on chromosomes"
"Fluoresence in situ hybridization (FISH) is a laboratory technique used for specific localization of genes and direct visualization of chromosomal anomalies"
"A(n) microdeletion is detected with FISH as no fluorescence on a chromosome compared to fluorescence at the same locus on the second copy of that chromosome"
"A(n) translocation is detected with FISH as fluorescence outside the original chromosome"
"A(n) duplication is detected with FISH as an extra site of fluorescence on one chromosome relative to its homologous chromosome"
"Transgenic strategies in mice involve random insertion or targeted insertion/deletion within a mouse genome"
"A(n) knock-out transgenic mouse has had a gene removed"
"A(n) knock-in transgenic mouse has had a gene inserted"
"A(n) Cre-lox system can inducibly manipulate genes at specific developmental points (e.g. study a gene whose deletion causes embryonic deaths)"
"RNA interference uses dsRNA complementary to an mRNA of interest to \knock down\\" gene expression\""
"A(n) locus is the specific location of a gene on a chromosome"
"Alleles are different forms of a single gene"
"When looking at a pedigree, a square is indicative of a(n) male"
"When looking at a pedigree, a circle is indicative of a(n) female"
"When looking at a pedigree, a(n) shaded circle/square is indicative of a diseased individual"
"If a disease has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern, it is usually doesn't skip generations"
"Autosomal dominant diseases are often due to defects in structural genes"
"Autosomal dominant diseases are often pleiotropic and variably expressive"
"If a disease has an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern, it is usually does skip generations"
"Autosomal recessive diseases are often due to enzyme deficiences"
"There is an increased risk of autosomal recessive diseases in consanguineous families"
"If a disease has an X-linked recessive inheritance pattern, it usually does skip generations"
"If a disease has an X-linked recessive inheritance pattern, there is NO male-to-male transmission"
"X-linked recessive diseases are commonly more severe in males"
"If a male has an X-linked recessive disease, all of his daughters will be carriers"
"In females, one of two X-chromosomes is condensed and its genes turned off by cytosine methylation::specific action, forming heterochromatin (lyonization)"
"The formation of Barr bodies (X-chromosome inactivation) is also known as lyonization"
"If a disease has an X-linked dominant inheritance pattern, it usually doesn't skip generations"
"If a disease has an X-linked dominant inheritance pattern, there is NO male-to-male transmission"
"If a male has an X-linked dominant disease, all of his daughters will be affected"
"What is the mode of inheritance of hypophosphatemic rickets (vitamin D-resistant rickets)? X-linked dominant"
"Hypophosphatemic rickets is an inherited disorder resulting in increased phosphate wasting at the proximal tubule; results in rickets-like presentation"
"If a disease has a mitochondrial inheritance pattern, it can be inherited only from the mother"
"Mitochondrial diseases mostly affect neurons and muscles, which are both highly aerobic"
"Mitochondrial diseases often demonstrate variable expression in a population or within a family due to heteroplasmy"
"Muscle biopsies of patients with mitochondrial myopathies often show \ragged red\\" fibers\""
"Mitochondrial myopathies often present with myopathy, lactic acidosis, and CNS disease"
"Mitochondrial DNA encodes 22 tRNAs and 2 rRNAs"
"If a mother has a mitochondrial disease, all her children are affected"
"If a father has a mitochondrial disease, all his children are unaffected"
"Codominance describes an inheritance in which both alleles contribute to the phenotype of the heterozygote"
"Variable expressivity describes phenotypic variation among individuals with the same genotype"
"If some individuals who have the disease genotype do not display the disease phenotype, the disease is said to have incomplete penetrance"
"Pleiotropy describes the contribution of one gene to multiple phenotypic effects"
"Anticipation describes the increased severity or earlier onset of a disease in succeeding generations"
"What class of diseases is characterized by anticipation? Trinucleotide repeat diseases (e.g. Huntington disease)"
"If a patient inherits or develops a mutation in a(n) tumor suppressor gene, the complementary allele must be deleted/mutated before cancer develops"
"A(n) dominant negative mutation results in a heterozygote in which one allele produces a nonfunctional altered protein that also prevents the normal gene product from the normal allele from functioning"
"If mutations at different loci can produce a similar phenotype, a disease has locus heterogeneity"
"If different mutations at the same locus produce the same phenotype, a disease has allelic heterogeneity"
"Heteroplasmy is the presence of both normal and mutated mtDNA, resulting in variable expression of a mitochondrially inherited disease"
"Uniparental disomy is the inheritance of 2 copies of a chromosome from one parent and no copies from the other"
"Does a uniparental disomy result in euploidy or aneuploidy? Euploidy"
"If a uniparental disomy results in a(n) heterozygous offspring, there may have been a(n) meiosis I error"
"If a uniparental disomy results in a(n) homozygous offspring, there may have been a(n) meiosis II error"
"Genetic imprinting is the normal differential expression of an allele depending on parental origin (e.g. only one allele is active)"
"Both Prader-Willi and Angelman syndrome are due to a mutation or deletion of genes on chromosome 15"
"In Prader-Willi::Prader-Willi OR Angelman syndrome, the maternal gene is imprinted and the paternal gene is mutated/deleted"
"In Angelman syndrome, the paternal gene is imprinted and the maternal gene is mutated/deleted"
"25% of cases of Prader-Willi syndrome are due to maternal uniparental disomy"
"5% of cases of Angelman syndrome are due to paternal uniparental disomy"
"What pathology is characterized by insatiable appetite (hyperphagia), obesity, intellectual disability, and hypogonadism? Prader-Willi syndrome"
"What pathology is characterized by inappropriate laughter, seizures, ataxia, and severe intellectual disability? Angelman syndrome"
"What pathology is also known as \happy puppet\\" syndrome? Angelman syndrome\""
"In both Angelman syndrome and Prader-Willi syndrome, the most common abnormality is a gene deletion"
"When using Hardy-Weinberg population genetics, p and q represent allelic frequencies"
"When using Hardy-Weinberg population genetics, p2, 2pq, and q2 represent genotypic frequencies"
"What equation is used to calculate allele frequency when using Hardy-Weinberg population genetics? p + q = 1"
"What equation is used to calculate genotypic frequency when using Hardy-Weinberg population genetics? p2 + 2pq + q2 = 1"
"When using Hardy-Weinberg population genetics, the frequency of an X-linked recessive disease in males is equal to q"
"When using Hardy-Weinberg population genetics, the frequency of an X-linked recessive disease in females is equal to q2"
"When using Hardy-Weinberg population genetics, the frequency of a carrier of a recessive disease is equal to 2pq"
"One assumption of Hardy-Weinberg population genetics is that there is no net migration"
"One assumption of Hardy-Weinberg population genetics is that there is completely random mating"
"One assumption of Hardy-Weinberg population genetics is that natural selection is not occurring"
"One assumption of Hardy-Weinberg population genetics is that no mutations have occurred at the locus"
"Sister chromatids are joined together at the end of S phase at the centromere"
"The short arm of the chromosome is known as the p arm, and the long is the q arm"
"Acrocentric chromosomes are characterized by very short p arms"
"What chromosomes are considered acrocentric chromosomes? 13, 14, 15, 21, 22::5"
"What is the most common mechanism of chromosomal aneuploidy? Meiotic nondisjunction"
"Mosaicism describes the presence of genetically distinct cell lines in the same individual"
"Somatic mosaicism occurs when a mutation arises from mitotic::[mitotic/meiotic]] errors after fertilization and propagates through multiple tissues or organs"
"Gonadal mosaicism occurs when the mutation is only in egg or sperm cells"
"McCune-Albright syndrome is lethal if the mutation occurs before fertilization (affecting all cells), but survivable in patients with mosaicism"
"McCune-Albright syndrome is due to a mutation affecting G-protein signaling"
"McCune-Albright syndrome is characterized by unilateral café-au-lait spots, precocious puberty, and polyostotic fibrous dysplasia"
"Crossover is chromosomal rearrangment between homologous chromosomes"
"Reciprocal translocation is chromosomal rearrangement between non-homologous chromosomes"
"What type of chromosome is most commonly involved in a robertsonian translocation? Acrocentric chromosomes"
"A(n) Robertsonian translocation occurs when the long arms of 2 acrocentric chromosomes fuse at the centromere and the 2 short arms are lost"
"How can a Robertsonian translocation cause chromosomal imbalance in offspring? A gamete with the mutated chromosome is passed on (e.g. gamete with t(14;21))"
"Do Robertsonian translocations usually cause pathology in the individual who acquired the mutation? No, it usually is a balanced translocation"
"Cri-du-chat syndrome is caused by a congenital microdeletion of chromosome 5p (short arm)"
"What pathology is associated with microcephaly, intellectual disability, and a high-pitched cry? Cri-du-chat syndrome"
"Williams syndrome is caused by a congenital microdeletion of chromosome 7q (long arm)"
"What pathology is associated with \elfin\\" facies"
"An isochromosome is a chromosome with two copies of one arm and no copies of the other"
"What pathology may be caused by an isochromosome in the X chromosome? Turner's syndrome (46,X,i(Xq))"
"Linkage disequilibrium describes the tendency of alleles at two loci on the same chromosome to be inherited together greater or less often than expected by chance"
"Linkage disequlibrium is measured in a(n) population, not in a family"
"If alleles at two loci are inherited equally as expected by chance, the loci are said to be in linkage equilibrium"
"The closer the recombination frequency is to 0%, the closer alleles in a haplotype are to each other"
"If two linked genes have a recombination frequency of 15%, approximately how far apart are they? 15 centiMorgans (cM)"
"LOD scores are used to calculate the probability that two loci are linked (linkage disequilibrium)"
"An LOD score greater than 3 indicates linkage"
"An LOD score less than -2 indicates no linkage"
"Marfan syndrome is due to a(n) FBN1 gene mutation on chromosome 15"
"What protein is defective in Marfan syndrome? Fibrillin (scaffold for elastin)"
"What pathology is associated with long, tapering fingers and toes (arachnodactyly) and subluxation of lenses? Marfan syndrome"
"Marfan syndrome typically presents with subluxation of the lenses upward::direction and temporally::direction"
"Marfan syndrome is associated with a floppy mitral valve"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Marfan syndrome? Autosomal dominant"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Fragile X syndrome? X-linked dominant"
"What class of diseases is Fragile X syndrome a part of? Trinucleotide repeat expansion diseases"
"Fragile X syndrome is due to a trinucleotide repeat in the FMR1 gene"
"What pathology is associated with an enlarged jaw, testes, and ears? Fragile X syndrome"
"What sequence of nucleotides is repeated in Fragile X syndrome? CGG"
"What is the second most common cause of genetic intellectual disability? Fragile X syndrome (#1 is Down syndrome)"
"What class of diseases is Huntington disease a part of? Trinucleotide repeat expansion diseases"
"What class of diseases is Friedreich ataxia a part of? Trinucleotide repeat expansion diseases"
"What class of diseases is myotonic dystrophy a part of? Trinucleotide repeat expansion diseases"
"What sequence of nucleotides is repeated in Friedreich ataxia? GAA"
"What sequence of nucleotides is repeated in Huntington disease? CAG"
"What sequence of nucleotides is repeated in myotonic dystrophy? CTG"
"What is the most common cause (95%) of Down syndrome? Meiotic nondisjunction"
"4% of cases of Down syndrome are due to unbalanced Robertsonian translocation"
"1% of cases of Down syndrome are due to mosaicism"
"What is the most common cause of genetic intellectual disability? Down syndrome"
"Down syndrome may present with increased nuchal translucency on ultrasound"
"Down syndrome presents with decreased serum PAPP-A"
"Down syndrome presents with increased free β-hCG"
"Down syndrome presents with increased inhibin A"
"Down syndrome presents with decreased estriol"
"Down syndrome presents with decreased free α-fetoprotein (AFP)"
"What pathology is associated with intellectual disability, prominent epicanthal folds, and a single palmar crease? Down syndrome"
"What chromosomal abnormality is associated with Down syndrome? Trisomy 21"
"What chromosomal abnormality is associated with Edwards syndrome? Trisomy 18"
"What chromosomal abnormality is associated with Patau syndrome? Trisomy 13"
"The findings in Edwards Syndrome may be remembered with PRINCE Edward: - Prominent occiput - Rocker-bottom feet - Intellectual disability- Nondisjunction - Clenched fists with overlapping fingers - low-set Ears"
"Patients with Edwards syndrome and Patau syndrome often die within 1 year(s) of birth"
"Edward syndrome and Patau syndrome present with decreased serum PAPP-A"
"Edward syndrome and Patau syndrome present with decreased free β-hCG"
"Edward syndrome presents with decreased or normal inhibin A"
"Edward syndrome presents with decreased estriol"
"Edward syndrome presents with decreased free α-fetoprotein (AFP)"
"The findings in Patau Syndrome may be remembered with the 5'Ps - cleft Palate - holoProsencephaly::h--P--- - Polydactyly - aPlasia cutis - Polycystic Kidney disease"
"How does the cardiac output of the left heart compare to the right heart? Equal (in steady state)"
"The rate at which blood is pumped from either ventricle is called the cardiac output"
"The rate at which blood is returned to the atria is called the venous return"
"Oxygenated blood flows from the lungs to the left atrium via the pulmonary vein"
"Blood flows from the left atrium to the left ventricle through the mitral (bicuspid) valve"
"Blood flows from the left ventricle to the aorta through the aortic valve"
"Blood flows from the aorta to the systemic arteries and tissues"
"Blood flows from the tissues to the systemic veins and ultimately the vena cava before returning to the right atrium"
"Deoxygenated blood flows from the vena cava to the right atrium"
"Blood flows from the right atrium to the right ventricle through the tricuspid valve"
"Blood flows from the right ventricle to the pulmonary artery through the pulmonic valve"
"Blood flows from the pulmonary artery to the lungs for oxygenation"
"Which type of blood vessel has extensive elastic tissue and smooth muscle? Artery"
"Arteries are under high pressure"
"The blood volume contained in the arteries is called the stressed volume"
"The smallest branches of arteries are known as arterioles"
"Arterioles are a type of blood vessel with the highest resistance in the cardiovascular system"
"Arteriolar resistance is regulated by the sympathetic nervous system"
"What type of receptor is found on the arterioles of skin, splanchnic, and renal circulation? α1-adrenergic receptors"
"What type of receptors are found on the arterioles of skeletal muscle? α1- and β2-adrenergic receptors::2"
"When activated, α1-adrenergic receptors cause contraction of vascular smooth muscle"
"When activated, β2-adrenergic receptors cause relaxation of vascular smooth muscle"
"Which type of blood vessel has the largest total cross-sectional and surface area? Capillaries"
"Which type of blood vessel is the site of exchange of nutrients, water, and gases? Capillaries"
"Capillaries are thin-walled blood vessels that consist of a single layer of endothelial cells surrounded by a basal lamina"
"Veins are under low pressure"
"The blood volume contained in the veins is called the unstressed volume"
"What type of adrenergic receptor do veins have? α1-adrenergic receptors"
"What type of blood vessel contains the largest percentage of blood in the cardiovascular system? Veins"
"What equation may be used to calculate the velocity of blood flow (v) given the flow rate (Q)? v = Q/A"
"Velocity of blood (v) is inversely proportional to the total cross-sectional area"
"What type of blood vessel has the lowest flow velocity? Capillaries"
"What equation may be used to calculate the blood flow (Q) given pressure and resistance? Q = ΔP/R"
"Blood flow (Q) is inversely proportional to the resistance of blood vessels"
"The magnitude of blood flow (Q) is directly proportional to the size of the pressure difference between blood vessels"
"The direction of blood flow is determined by the direction of the pressure gradient and is always from high to low pressure"
"The resistance of the entire systemic vasculature is called the total peripheral resistance (TPR)"
"In Poiseulle's equation, Resistance is directly proportional to the viscosity (η) of the blood"
"Resistance is directly proportional to the length of the blood vessel"
"Resistance is inversely proportional to the fourth power of the radius of the blood vessel"
"What type of resistance is illustrated by the arrangement of blood vessels within a given organ? Series resistance"
"The equation Rtotal = R1 + R2 ... may be used to calculate the total resistance of a system arranged in series"
"Which type of blood vessel causes the greatest decrease in pressure in a vascular system arranged in series? Arterioles"
"When resistances are arranged in series, the total flow through each level of the system is the same"
"What type of resistance is illustrated by the arrangement of blood vessels in systemic circulation? Parallel resistance"
"The equation 1/Rtotal = 1/R1 + 1/R2 ... may be used to calculate the total resistance of a system arranged in parallel"
"When a blood vessel is added to a system in series, the total resistance increases"
"When a blood vessel is added to a system in parallel, the total resistance decreases"
"When vessels are arranged in parallel, the total resistance is less than the resistance of any of the individual arteries"
"When resistances are arranged in parallel, the pressure through each level of the system is the same"
"Ideally, blood flow in the cardiovascular system is laminar, or streamlined"
"If blood flow is laminar, the highest velocity occurs at the center of the blood vessel"
"Reynolds' number predicts whether blood flow will be laminar or turbulent"
"When Reynolds' number is increased, there is a greater tendency for turbulent blood flow"
"Turbulent flow in a blood vessel causes audible vibrations known as bruits or murmurs::2"
"A(n) increase in velocity of blood causes an increase in Reynolds' number"
"A(n) decrease in viscosity of blood causes an increase in Reynolds' number"
"What is the effect of blood vessel narrowing (e.g. thrombus) on Reynolds' number? Increased"
"Viscosity of blood depends mostly on hematocrit"
"What is the effect of anemia on blood viscosity? Decreased"
"What is the effect of polycythemia on blood viscosity? Increased"
"Shear is a consequence of adjacent layers of blood traveling at different velocities within a blood vessel"
"Shear is highest at the wall of a blood vessel"
"Shear is lowest at the center of a blood vessel"
"The capacitance (compliance) of a blood vessel describes the volume of blood the vessel can hold at a given pressure"
"The greater the amount of elastic tissue there is in a blood vessel (elastance), the lower the compliance is"
"What equation may be used to calculate the capacitance of a blood vessel? C = V / P"
"Which type of blood vessel has the greatest capacitance? Veins"
"What is the result of aging on the capacitance (compliance) of arteries? Decreased (more stiff, less distensible)"
"Systolic pressure is the highest arterial pressure during the cardiac cycle"
"The \blip\\" in the arterial pressure curve"
"Diastolic pressure is the lowest arterial pressure during the cardiac cycle"
"The pulse pressure is the difference between the systolic and diastolic pressures"
"Pulse pressure is directly proportional to stroke volume"
"Pulse pressure is inversely proportional to arterial compliance"
"What equation may be used to calculate mean arterial pressure given a patient's blood pressure? MAP = 2/3 diastolic pressure + 1/3 systolic pressure"
"Compared to the systemic vasculature, the pressures in the pulmonary vasculature are much lower"
"Compared to the systemic vasculature, the resistance in the pulmonary vasculature is much lower"
"Action potentials in the heart are usually initiated in the SA node, which serves as the pacemaker"
"Action potentials spread from the SA node to the AV node and right/left atria, simultaneously"
"Conduction velocity through the AV node is slower than in the other cardiac tissues"
"From the AV node, the myocardial action potential enters the Bundle of His"
"From the Bundle of His, the myocardial action potential enters the Purkinje fibers and ultimately the ventricles"
"The resting membrane potential of cardiac cells is determined primarily by potassium (K+) ions"
"In a cardiac cell, the conductance to K+ at rest is high::high/low"
"The Na+ and K+ concentration gradients across the cardiac cell are maintained by the Na+-K+-ATPase pump"
"Phase 0 of the myocardial action potential is characterized by rapid upstroke/depolarization"
"Phase 0 of the myocardial action potential is caused by opening of voltage-gated Na+ channels"
"Phase 1 of the myocardial action potential is characterized by initial repolarization"
"Phase 1 of the myocardial action potential is caused by inactivation of voltage-gated Na+ channels and opening of voltage-gated K+ channels"
"Phase 2 of the myocardial action potential is characterized by plateau"
"Phase 2 of the myocardial action potential (plateau) is caused by a balance of K+ efflux and Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated channels"
"The calcium channels that open during the plateau phase (myocardial action potential) are L-type channels"
"The influx of calcium during the plateau phase of a myocardial action potential triggers release of Ca2+ from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, causing myocyte contraction"
"Phase 3 of the myocardial action potential is characterized by rapid repolarization"
"Phase 3 of the myocardial action potential is caused by massive efflux of K+ and closure of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels"
"Phase 4 of the myocardial action potential is characterized by a return to resting membrane potential"
"What type of action potential occurs in the ventricles, atria, and Purkinje system? Myocardial action potentials (phase 0 through phase 4)"
"Phase 0 of the SA node action potential is characterized by upstroke"
"Phase 0 of the SA node action potential is caused by opening of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels"
"How does the rate of upstroke in a SA node action potential compare to that of a myocardial action potential? SA node is slower"
"What type of calcium channels exist in the SA node? L-type (primary) and T-type::2"
"What phases of the myocardial action potential are not present in an SA node action potential? Phase 1 & 2 (initial repolarization & plateau)"
"Phase 3 of the SA node action potential is characterized by repolarization"
"Phase 3 of the SA node action potential is caused by activation of K+ channels and inactivation of Ca2+ channels"
"Phase 4 of the SA node action potential is characterized by slow depolarization"
"The rate of phase 4 in the SA node action potential cycle determines heart rate"
"Which phase in the SA node accounts for its pacemaker activity and automaticity? Phase 4 (slow depolarization)"
"Phase 4 of the SA node action potential is caused by a slow, mixed Na+/K+ inward current via If (\funny\\") channels\""
"What three cell types are considered latent pacemakers? Cells of the AV node, bundle of His, and Purkinje fibers"
"Conduction velocity is the speed at which action potentials are propagated within the tissue"
"Where in the heart is conduction velocity the slowest? AV node"
"Where in the heart is conduction velocity the fastest? Purkinje fibers"
"Conduction velocity depends on the size (magnitude) of the inward current during the upstroke of an action potential"
"Excitability is the ability of cardiac cells to initiate action potentials in response to inward, depolarizing current"
"The absolute refractory period refers to the period in which no action potential can be initiated"
"In cardiac cells, the absolute refractory period begins with the upstroke and ends after the plateau"
"The effective refractory period refers to the period in which a(n) conductive action potential cannot be generated"
"The relative refractory period refers to the period in which a second action potential is possible, but requires a greater-than-normal stimulus"
"The effects of the autonomic nervous system on heart rate are called chronotropic effects"
"A negative chronotropic effect decreases heart rate"
"A positive chronotropic effect increases heart rate"
"What is the result of sympathetic stimulation on heart rate? Increased"
"What is the result of parasympathetic stimulation on heart rate? Decreased"
"Through what receptor does the sympathetic nervous system increase heart rate? β1 adrenergic receptor"
"Activation of β1 receptors in the SA node produces an increase in If channel activity, which increases the rate of phase 4 depolarization and thus heart rate"
"Through what receptor does the parasympathetic nervous system decrease heart rate? M2 muscarinic receptor::specific#"
"Activation of M2 receptors in the SA node produces a decrease in If channel activity, which decreases the rate of phase 4 depolarization and thus heart rate"
"The effects of the autonomic nervous system on conduction velocity are called dromotropic effects"
"A negative dromotropic effect decreases conduction velocity through the AV node"
"A positive dromotropic effect increases conduction velocity through the AV node"
"What is the result of sympathetic stimulation on conduction velocity? Increased"
"What is the result of parasympathetic stimulation on conduction velocity? Decreased"
"A(n) negative dromotropic effect increases the PR interval on an ECG"
"A(n) positive dromotropic effect decreases the PR interval on an ECG"
"The P wave on ECG represents atrial depolarization"
"Atrial repolarization is not seen on an ECG because it is masked by the QRS complex"
"The duration of the P wave correlates with the conduction velocity through the atria"
"The PR interval on ECG is the time from the initial depolarization of the atria to the initial depolarization of the ventricles"
"The PR interval on ECG depends on the conduction velocity through the AV node"
"The QRS complex on ECG represents ventricular depolarization"
"The T wave on ECG represents ventricular repolarization"
"T-wave inversion may indicate recent myocardial infarction (MI)"
"The QT interval on ECG represents the entire period of ventricular depolarization, contraction, and repolarization"
"The ST segment on ECG is an isoelectric period (horizontal line) when the ventricles are depolarized"
"The U wave on ECG is prominent in hypokalemia and bradycardia"
"The J point on ECG is the junction between the end of QRS complex and start of ST segment"
"Which pacemaker in the heart has the fastest rate? SA node (hence why it is dominant)"
"The left bundle branch of the bundle of His divides into anterior and posterior fascicles"
"The AV node is located in the posteroinferior part of the interatrial septum"
"Slowed conduction through the AV node normally causes a(n) 100-msec delay, allowing time for ventricular filling"
"Serotonin syndrome as a side effect of ondansetron is more common in patients with concommitant use of drugs that increase levels of serotonin"
"Vitamin D resistance occurs due to the absence of the renal enzyme 1α-hydroxylase, thus preventing activation of vitamin D"
"The sarcomere is the contractile unit of the myocardial cell"
"What part of a myocardial cell is responsible for carrying action potentials into the cell interior? T tubules"
"What part of a myocardial cell is the site of storage and release of Ca2+ for excitation-contraction coupling? Sarcoplasmic Reticulum (SR)"
"During the plateau of a myocardial action potential, Ca2+ enters the cell through dihydropyridine receptors (L-type Ca2+ channels)"
"Entry of Ca2+ into the myocardial cell during the myocardial action potential triggers further release of Ca2+ through ryanodine receptors (Ca2+ release channels)"
"In the myocardial cell, high intracellular Ca2+ binds to troponin C, causing tropomyosin to move out of the way, which allows actin and myosin interaction"
"The magnitude of the tension that develops during myocardial excitation-contraction coupling is proportional to levels of intracellular Ca2+"
"Relaxation of a myocardial cell occurs when: - Ca2+ is reaccumulated in the sarcoplasmic reticulum by the action of Ca2+ ATPase (SERCA) - Ca2+ is pumped out of the cell by the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (NCX)"
"Gap junctions are low-resistance paths between cardiac cells that allow for rapid electrical spread of action potentials"
"Contractility, or inotropism, is the intrinsic ability of myocardial cells to develop force at a given muscle length"
"A positive inotropic effect increases heart contractility"
"A negative inotropic effect decreases heart contractility"
"Cardiac contractility correlates directly with intracellular Ca2+ concentration"
"Sympathetic stimulation increases phosphorylation/inhibition of phospholamban, which increases activity of Ca2+ ATPase aka SERCA"
"Parasympathetic stimulation decreases atrial::atrial or ventricular contractility via M2 receptors"
"What effect does increased heart rate have on cardiac contractility? Increased contractility (to an extent)"
"What effect does decreased heart rate have on cardiac contractility? Decreased contractility"
"Cardiac contractility increases with increased::increased or decreased catecholamines"
"Cardiac contractility increases with increased intracellular Ca2+"
"Cardiac contractility increases with decreased extracellular Na+"
"What is the effect of cardiac glycosides on contractility? Increased contractility"
"Cardiac glycosides exert their actions via direct inhibition of the Na+-K+ ATPase pump"
"What effect do cardiac glycosides have on intracellular Na+ concentration? Increased"
"Increased intracellular [Na+] in cardiac myocytes causes decreased activity of the Ca2+-Na+ exchanger"
"Decreased activity of the Ca2+-Na+ exchanger (e.g. due to cardiac glycosides) causes increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration"
"The velocity of shortening of cardiac muscle is maximal when afterload is zero"
"The velocity of shortening of cardiac muscle decreases as afterload increases"
"Stroke volume is defined as the volume of blood ejected by one ventricular contraction"
"Ejection fraction is defined as the fraction of the end-diastolic volume that is ejected in each stroke volume"
"The equation SV = EDV - ESV may be used to calculate stroke volume"
"The equation ejection fraction = SV/EDV may be used to calculate ejection fraction"
"Cardiac contractility can be estimated by the left ventricular ejection fraction"
"Ejection fraction is normally > 55%"
"What equation is used to calculate cardiac output given a patients stroke volume and heart rate? CO = SV x HR"
"The Frank-Starling relationship states that the force of contraction is proportional to the end-diastolic length of the cardiac muscle fiber"
"What is the effect of increased venous return on end-diastolic volume (EDV)? Increased EDV"
"Increases in contractility cause the Starling curve to shift upward"
"Decreases in contractility (e.g. heart failure) cause the Starling curve to shift downward"
"Exercise causes the Starling curve to shift upward"
"Isovolumetric contraction is the first phase of a cardiac cycle and represents the period between mitral valve closing and aortic valve opening"
"Ventricular (systolic) ejection is the second phase of a cardiac cycle and represents the period between aortic valve opening and closing"
"Isovolumetric relaxation is the third phase of a cardiac cycle and represents the period between aortic valve closing and mitral valve opening"
"Rapid ventricular filling is the fourth phase of a cardiac cycle and represents the period just after mitral valve opening"
"Reduced filling is the fifth phase of a cardiac cycle and represents the period just before mitral valve closing"
"The width of a pressure-volume loop is the stroke volume"
"Preload is approximated by ventricular end-diastolic volume (EDV)"
"What effect does increased venous return have on preload? Increased preload"
"Afterload is approximated by mean arterial pressure"
"What effect does increased aortic pressure have on afterload? Increased afterload"
"Increased preload::AL/PL/CT results in a(n) increased width on a pressure-volume loop curve"
"Increased afterload results in a(n) decreased width and increased height on a pressure-volume loop curve"
"Increased contractility results in a(n) increased width and increased height on a pressure-volume loop curve"
"What effect does increased preload have on stroke volume? Increased SV"
"What effect does increased afterload have on stroke volume? Decreased SV"
"What effect does increased afterload have on end-systolic volume? Increased ESV"
"What effect does increased contractility have on end-systolic volume? Decreased ESV"
"What effect does increased contractility have on stroke volume? Increased SV"
"What effect does increased preload have on ejection fraction? Increased EF"
"Which phase of the cardiac cycle is the period of highest O2 consumption? Isovolumetric contraction"
"According to the law of Laplace, cardiac wall stress = P*r / 2H"
"Cardiac O2 consumption is directly related to the amount of tension developed by the ventricles"
"What is the effect of increased afterload (increased aortic pressure) on cardiac O2 consumption? Increased O2 consumption"
"What is the effect of increased ventricular diameter on cardiac O2 consumption? Increased O2 consumption"
"What is the effect of increased contractility on cardiac O2 consumption? Increased O2 consumption"
"What is the effect of increased heart rate on cardiac O2 consumption? Increased O2 consumption"
"The reasons there is concentric left ventricular hypertrophy in response to systemic hypertension is that increased wall thickness decreases wall stress by offsetting increased wall tension"
"The left ventricle compensates for increased afterload by thickening (hypertrophy) in order to decrease wall tension"
"What effect does increased aortic pressure (afterload) have on cardiac wall stress? Increased wall stress"
"According to the Fick principle: Cardiac Output (CO) = O2 consumption / (arterial O2 content - venous O2 content)"
"The resistance of a vessel may be calculated using Poiseuille's equation, which states R = 8ηl/πr4"
"The likelihood of turbulent flow may be calculated using Reynolds' number, which states NR = ρdv/η"
"The SA node is located in the wall of the right atrium near the orifice of the superior vena cava"
"The heart sound S1 is due to mitral and tricuspid valve closure"
"The normal heart sound S1 is loudest at the mitral area"
"The heart sound S2 is due to aortic and pulmonic valve closure"
"The normal heart sound S2 is loudest at the left upper sternal border"
"Atrial systole is preceded by the P wave on ECG, which marks depolarization of the atria"
"The increase in atrial pressure caused by atrial systole appears on the venous pulse curve as the a wave"
"Is the fourth heart sound (S4) normally audible in adults? No"
"The heart sound S4 can be associated with ventricular noncompliance"
"The abnormal heart sounds S3 and S4 are best heard at the heart apex, with the patient in left lateral decubitus position"
"The abnormal heart sound S4 may be audible during atrial systole (late ventricular diastole)"
"How does ventricular volume change during atrial systole? Increase"
"What phase of the cardiac cycle begins during the QRS complex on ECG? Isovolumetric ventricular contraction::specific"
"The heart sound S1 may be audible during isovolumetric contraction"
"When the left ventricle contracts, the left ventricular pressure becomes greater than left atrial pressure and the mitral valve closes"
"The mitral valve closes slightly before the tricuspid valve, thus heart sound S1 may be split"
"During rapid ventricular ejection, the ventricular pressure becomes greater than aortic pressure and the aortic valve opens"
"How does aortic pressure change during rapid ventricular ejection? Increase"
"How does ventricular volume change during rapid ventricular ejection? Dramatic decrease"
"The end of rapid ventricular ejection corresponds with the onset of the T wave on ECG"
"During right ventricular contraction, the tricuspid valve bulges into the right atrium, which appears as the c wave on the venous pulse curve"
"The onset of reduced ventricular ejection corresponds with the onset of the T wave on ECG"
"How do aortic and ventricular pressure change during reduced ventricular ejection? Decrease"
"During atrial relaxation, the tricuspid valve returns to its downward position, which appears as the x descent on the venous pulse curve"
"The heart sound S2 may be audible during isovolumetric relaxation"
"How does ventricular pressure change during isovolumetric relaxation? Decrease"
"Increased right atrial pressure, due to filling against a closed tricuspid valve, appears as the v wave on the venous pulse curve"
"Isovolumetric relaxation corresponds to the end of the T wave on ECG"
"During isovolumetric relaxation, the ventricular pressure becomes less than aortic pressure and the aortic valve closes"
"Inspiration delays closure of the pulmonic valve which causes splitting of the S2 heart sound"
"During rapid ventricular filling, the left ventricular pressure becomes less than the left atrial pressure and the mitral valve opens"
"How does atrial pressure change during rapid ventricular filling? Decrease"
"The abnormal heart sound S3 may be audible during rapid ventricular filling (early diastole)"
"In what demographics may the heart sound S3 be normal? Children, young adults, pregnant women, athletes::4 options"
"The presence of the heart sound S3 in middle-aged or older adults indicates volume overload"
"Reduced ventricular filling, or diastasis, is the longest phase of the cardiac cycle"
"What phase of the cardiac cycle is most affected by changes in heart rate? Reduced ventricular filling (diastasis)"
"During rapid ventricular filling, the right atrium empties into the right ventricle, which appears as the y descent on the venous pulse curve"
"The cardiac function curve plots left ventricular cardiac output (LVCO) vs right atrial pressure (RAP)"
"The vascular function curve plots right atrial pressure vs venous return"
"The mean systemic pressure is the point at which the vascular function curve intersects the x-axis"
"The mean systemic pressure is equal to the right atrial pressure when the venous return is zero"
"What effect does increased blood volume have on mean systemic pressure? Increased"
"An increase in mean systemic pressure is reflected in a shift of the vascular function curve to the right"
"A decrease in mean systemic pressure is reflected in a shift of the vascular function curve to the left"
"What effect does increased venous tone (decreased compliance) have on mean systemic pressure? Increased"
"What two factors influence the value for mean systemic pressure? Blood volume, venous tone"
"The slope of the vascular function curve is determined primarily by total peripheral resistance (TPR)"
"A(n) positive inotropic agent causes the cardiac function curve to shift upwards"
"A(n) negative inotropic agent causes the cardiac function curve to shift downwards"
"The intersection of the cardiac and vascular function curves is the operating point of the heart"
"A positive inotropic agent causes the cardiac output to increase and right atrial pressure to decrease"
"A negative inotropic agent causes the cardiac output to decrease and right atrial pressure to increase"
"An increased blood volume (or venous tone) causes the cardiac output to increase and right atrial pressure to increase"
"A decreased blood volume (or venous tone) causes the cardiac output to decrease and right atrial pressure to decrease"
"An increased TPR causes the cardiac output to decrease and venous return to decrease"
"A decreased TPR causes the cardiac output to increase and venous return to increase"
"A(n) decrease in TPR causes a(n) clockwise rotation of the vascular function curve"
"A(n) increase in TPR causes a(n) counterclockwise rotation of the vascular function curve"
"A(n) decrease in TPR causes a(n) upward shift of the cardiac function curve"
"A(n) increase in TPR causes a(n) downward shift of the cardiac function curve"
"What equation is used to calculate mean arterial pressure using a patient's cardiac output? MAP = CO x TPR"
"Mean arterial pressure is maintained at a constant level of approximately 100 mmHg"
"The baroreceptor reflex is a fast, neurally mediated mechanism of regulating arterial pressure"
"What type of receptor acts as a pressure sensor? Baroreceptor"
"Baroreceptors are stretch mechanoreceptors located within the carotid sinus and the aortic arch"
"Which baroreceptors are responsive to both increases and decreases in arterial pressure? Carotid sinus receptors"
"Which baroreceptors are responsive to increases in arterial pressure only? Aortic arch receptors"
"Information from the carotid sinus baroreceptor is carried to the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) via the glossopharyngeal nerve"
"Information from the aortic arch baroreceptors is carried to the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) via the vagus nerve"
"What effect does decreased stretch (e.g. hemorrhage) have on the afferent firing rate of a baroreceptor? Decreased firing rate"
"In response to decreased afferent baroreceptor firing, there is increased efferent sympathetic firing (baroreceptor reflex)"
"In response to decreased afferent baroreceptor firing, there is decreased efferent parasympathetic firing (baroreceptor reflex)"
"How does decreased efferent parasympathetic firing (e.g. baroreceptor reflex) affect heart rate? Increased HR"
"How does increased efferent sympathetic firing (e.g. baroreceptor reflex) affect heart rate? Increased HR"
"How does increased efferent sympathetic firing (e.g. baroreceptor reflex) affect contractility? Increased contractility"
"How does increased efferent sympathetic firing (e.g. baroreceptor reflex) affect TPR? Increased TPR (via increased arteriolar vasoconstriction)"
"How does increased efferent sympathetic firing (e.g. baroreceptor reflex) affect venoconstriction? Increased venoconstriction"
"The integrity of the baroreceptor reflex can be tested with the Valsalva maneuver"
"What change in heart rate is expected during the valsalva maneuver if the patient's baroreceptor reflex is intact? Increased HR"
"The a wave on jugular venous pulse corresponds to atrial contraction"
"The c wave on jugular venous pulse corresponds to right ventricle contraction"
"The x descent on jugular venous pulse corresponds to atrial relaxation"
"The v wave on jugular venous pulse corresponds to right atrial filling"
"The y descent on jugular venous pulse corresponds to right atrial emptying into the right ventricle"
"The renin-angiotensin II-aldosterone system is a slow, hormonally mediated mechanism of regulating arterial pressure"
"The renin-angiotensin II-aldosterone system regulates mean arterial pressure primarily by adjusting blood volume"
"The renin-angiotensin II-aldosterone system is activated in response to a(n) decrease in mean arterial pressure"
"A decrease in renal perfusion pressure causes the juxtaglomerular cells of the afferent arterioles to secrete renin"
"Renin is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I in the plasma"
"Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II"
"In which organ does angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) catalyze conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II? Lungs (primarily)"
"Angiotensin II stimulates the synthesis and secretion of aldosterone by the adrenal cortex"
"Angiotensin II increases Na+-H+ exchange in the proximal convoluted tubule"
"Angiotensin II increases thirst via its action on the hypothalamus"
"Angiotensin II causes constriction of arterioles"
"Peripheral chemoreceptors are located in the carotid bodies and aortic bodies"
"Peripheral chemoreceptors are stimulated by decreased Po2 and pH"
"Peripheral chemoreceptors are stimulated by increased Paco2"
"Central chemoreceptors are stimulated by changes in pH and Pco2 of the brain"
"When the brain is ischemic, the Pco2 increases and pH decreases"
"In response to increased Pco2 in the brain, there is intense peripheral vasoconstriction"
"Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) is released from atrial myocytes in response to increased blood volume and atrial pressure"
"Through which secondary messenger does ANP exert its actions? cGMP"
"Atrial natriuretic peptide generally causes dilation of arterioles"
"What effect does atrial natriuretic peptide have on Na+ reabsorption at the renal collecting tubule? Decreased reabsorption"
"Atrial natriuretic peptide dilates afferent renal arterioles and constricts efferent renal arterioles, which increases excretion of Na+ and water, along with downregulating ENaC on the collecting tubules"
"Atrial baroreceptors respond to decreased blood volume by increasing release of vasopressin (ADH) from the posterior pituitary"
"Vasopressin (ADH) causes constriction of arterioles by activating V1 receptors"
"Vasopressin (ADH) causes water reabsorption by the renal distal tubule and collecting ducts by activating V2 receptors"
"At the junction of the arterioles and capillaries is a smooth muscle band called the pre-capillary sphincter"
"Lipid-soluble substances cross the membranes of capillary endothelial cells by simple diffusion"
"Small water-soluble substances cross the membranes of capillary endothelial cells by aqueous clefts (between endothelial cells)"
"Large water-soluble substances cross the membranes of capillary endothelial cells by pinocytosis"
"The effective osmotic pressure contributed by protein is called the oncotic pressure"
"The Starling equation is used to determine fluid flow (Jv) and states that Jv = Kf [(Pc - Pi) - σ(πc −πi)]"
"When Jv (fluid flow) is positive, there is net fluid movement out of the capillary (filtration)"
"When Jv (fluid flow) is negative, there is net fluid movement into the capillary (absorption)"
"When net fluid movement is out of the capillary into the interstitial fluid, it is called filtration"
"When net fluid movement is into the capillary from the interstitial fluid, it is called absorption"
"The magnitude of fluid movement is determined by the hydraulic conductance (Kf) of the capillary wall"
"What does Kf represent in regards to capillary fluid exchange? Permeability to fluid (water)"
"What does Pc represent in regards to capillary fluid exchange? Capillary hydrostatic pressure"
"Increased capillary hydrostatic pressure (Pc) pushes fluid out of the capillary"
"Capillary hydrostatic pressure (Pc) is highest at the arteriolar end of the capillary and lowest at the venous end"
"What does Pi represent in regards to capillary fluid exchange? Interstitial hydrostatic pressure"
"Increased interstitial hydrostatic pressure (Pi) pushes fluid into the capillary"
"What does πc represent in regards to capillary fluid exchange? Capillary oncotic pressure"
"Increased capillary oncotic pressure (πc) pulls fluid into the capillary"
"What does πi represent in regards to capillary fluid exchange? Interstitial oncotic pressure"
"Increased interstitial oncotic pressure (πi) pulls fluid out of the capillary"
"The excess fluid filtered out of the capillaries is returned to the circulation via lymph"
"Capillary fluid transudation results in clinically apparent edema when the fluid outflow (net plasma filtration) has risen sufficiently to overwhelm the resorptive capacity of tissue lymphatics"
"Edema may be caused by increased capillary pressure (Pc)"
"Edema may be caused by decreased plasma proteins (πc)"
"Edema may be caused by increased capillary permeability (Kf)"
"Edema may be caused by increased interstitial proteins (πi)"
"What is the effect of capillary injury (e.g. toxins, burns) on capillary permeability, Kf? Increased Kf"
"Autoregulation is the maintenance of a constant blood flow to an organ in the face of changing arterial pressures"
"Active hyperemia is the concept that blood flow to an organ is proportional to its metabolic activity"
"Reactive hyperemia is an increase in blood flow in response to a prior period of decreased blood flow"
"The vasodilator metabolites produced by tissues as a result of increased metabolic activity may be remembered using the mnemonic \CHALK\\": C: CO2 H: H+ A: Adenosine L: Lactate K: K+\""
"Histamine causes arteriolar dilation and venous constriction"
"Bradykinin causes arteriolar dilation and venous constriction"
"Serotonin causes arteriolar constriction"
"The E-series prostaglandins are vaso-dilators"
"The F-series prostaglandins are vaso-constrictors"
"Thromboxane A2 is a vaso-constrictor"
"What is the major factor determining autoregulation of blood flow to the heart? Local metabolites"
"The most important local metabolic factors for coronary circulation are nitric oxide (NO) and adenosine (vasodilatory)"
"What is the major factor determining autoregulation of blood flow to the brain? Local metabolites (vasodilatory)"
"The most important local metabolic factors for cerebral circulation are CO2 and H+ (pH)"
"What is the major factor determining autoregulation of blood flow to the lungs? Hypoxia (causes vasoconstriction)"
"In the lungs, hypoxia causes vaso-constriction"
"In most organs, hypoxia leads to compensatory vaso-dilation"
"What are the major factors determining autoregulation of blood flow to the villanous kidney? Myogenic and tubuloglomerular feedback::2"
"What is the major factor determining autoregulation of blood flow to the resting skeletal muscle? Sympathetic innervation"
"Sympathetic stimulation of α1 receptors in skeletal muscle causes vaso-constriction"
"Sympathetic stimulation of β2 receptors in skeletal muscle causes vaso-dilation"
"What is the major factor determining autoregulation of blood flow to the exercising skeletal muscle? Local metabolites"
"What is the major factor determining autoregulation of blood flow to the skin? Sympathetic innervation"
"The primary function of autoregulation of blood flow to the skin is temperature regulation"
"Exposure to cold temperatures causes increased activation of thyroid hormone"
"Exposure to cold temperatures causes increased sympathetic nervous system activity"
"Exposure to cold temperatures activates centers in the posterior hypothalamus, which then activate α and γ motoneurons innervating skeletal muscle, causing shivering"
"Mechanisms for dissipating heat are coordinated in the anterior hypothalamus"
"Increased body temperature causes decreased sympathetic nervous system activity"
"Pyrogens induce fever via increased production of IL-1, which acts on the anterior hypothalamus to increase local production of prostaglandins"
"How does exercise affect total peripheral resistance? Decreased TPR"
"When a person moves from a supine to a standing position, blood pools in the veins of the lower extremities"
"Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) is a good approximation of left atrial pressure"
"In mitral stenosis, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) is greater than LV end diastolic pressure"
"How is pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) measured? Pulmonary artery catheter (Swan-Ganz catheter)"
"What is the approximate normal pressure in the right atrium? < 5 mmHg"
"What is the approximate normal pressure in the right ventricle (systolic and diastolic)? 25/5 mmHg"
"What is the approximate normal pressure in the left atrium? < 12 mmHg"
"What is the approximate normal pressure in the left ventricle (systolic and diastolic)? 130/10 mmHg"
"What is the approximate normal pressure in the pulmonary artery (systolic and diastolic)? 25/10 mmHg"
"What is the approximate normal pressure in the aorta (systolic and diastolic)? 130/90 mmHg"
"B-type (brain) natriuretic peptide (BNP) is released from ventricular myocytes in response to increased tension"
"A B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) blood test is used for diagnosing heart failure"
"Torsades de pointes is a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia with shifting sinusoidal waveforms on ECG"
"Torsades de pointes can progress to ventricular fibrillation (VF)"
"A long QT interval predisposes to torsades de pointes"
"Treatment for torsades de pointes includes magnesium sulfate"
"Deficiencies of which two cations are associated with torsades de pointes? K+ and Mg2+"
"Congenital long QT syndrome is an inherited disorder of myocardial repolarization, typically due to ion channel defects"
"Congenital long QT syndrome has increased risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD) due to torsades de pointes"
"Romano-Ward syndrome is a form of long QT syndrome that is purely cardiac (no deafness)"
"Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome is a form of long QT syndrome that involves sensorineural deafness"
"What is the inheritance of Romano-Ward syndrome (a form of long QT syndrome)? Autosomal dominant"
"What is the inheritance of Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome (a form of long QT syndrome)? Autosomal recessive"
"What is the inheritance of Brugada syndrome? Autosomal dominant"
"What demographic is most commonly affected by Brugada syndrome? Asian males"
"Brugada syndrome presents with an ECG pattern of pseudo-right bundle branch block and ST elevations in leads V1 - V3"
"Patients with Brugada syndrome are at increased risk of ventricular tachyarrhythmias and sudden cardiac death (SCD)"
"Patients with Brugada syndrome may prevent sudden cardiac death with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD)"
"Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is the most common type of ventricular pre-excitation syndrome"
"Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome is due to an abnormally fast accessory conduction pathway from the atria to ventricle via the bundle of Kent, which bypasses the slower AV node"
"Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome presents with a characteristic delta wave on ECG"
"Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome presents with a(n) widened QRS complex and shortened PR interval on ECG"
"Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome may result in re-entry circuit, causing supraventricular tachycardia"
"During inspiration there is a(n) decrease in intrathoracic pressure, which increases venous return"
"Increased venous return during inspiration leads to increased RV filling and ejection time"
"Increased RV ejection time during inspiration causes delayed closure of the pulmonic valve (normal splitting)"
"Wide splitting is a delayed pulmonic sound, especially on inspiration, seen in conditions that delay right ventricle emptying"
"Fixed splitting is a delayed pulmonic sound, regardless of inspiration"
"What pathology is associated with fixed splitting? Atrial septal defect (ASD)"
"Paradoxical splitting is heard in conditions that delay aortic valve closure"
"In paradoxical splitting, the P2 sound occurs before a delayed A2 sound"
"Does aortic stenosis cause a systolic or diastolic murmur? Systolic murmur"
"What is the shape of a murmur due to aortic stenosis? Crescendo-decrescendo"
"Where is a murmur due to aortic stenosis the loudest? Heart base (aortic area)"
"A murmur due to aortic stenosis may radiate to the carotid arteries"
"Does mitral/tricuspid regurgitation cause a systolic or diastolic murmur? Holo-systolic murmur"
"A holosystolic high-pitched \blowing\\" murmur is indicative of what pathology? Mitral/tricuspid regurgitation\""
"Where is a murmur due to mitral regurgitation the loudest? Apex (mitral area)"
"A murmur due to mitral regurgitation may radiate to the axilla"
"Where is a murmur due to tricuspid regurgitation the loudest? Tricuspid area"
"A murmur due to tricuspid regurgitation may radiate to the right sternal border"
"Does mitral valve prolapse cause a systolic or diastolic murmur? Late systolic (with midsystolic click)"
"A murmur with a midsystolic click is indicative of what pathology? Mitral valve prolapse"
"What causes the midsystolic click in a murmur due to mitral valve prolapse? Sudden tensing of chordae tendinae"
"What is the shape of a murmur due to mitral valve prolapse? Late crescendo"
"Where is a murmur due to mitral valve prolapse the loudest? Apex (mitral area)"
"A murmur due to mitral valve prolapse is loudest just before which heart sound? S2"
"Does a ventricular septal defect cause a systolic or diastolic murmur? Holo-systolic"
"Where is a murmur due to ventricular septal defect the loudest? Tricuspid area"
"Does aortic regurgitation cause a systolic or diastolic murmur? Diastolic"
"What is the shape of a murmur due to aortic regurgitation? Early decrescendo"
"Does mitral stenosis cause a systolic or diastolic murmur? Diastolic"
"A delayed, rumbling late diastolic murmur is indicative of what pathology? Mitral stenosis"
"A murmur with an opening snap is most likely indicative of what pathology? Mitral stenosis"
"A continuous, machine-like murmur is indicative of what pathology? Patent ductus arteriosus"
"A murmur due to patent ductus arteriosus is loudest at which heart sound? S2"
"What is the likely cause of this murmur: aortic stenosis"
"What is the likely cause of this high-pitched, \blowing\\" murmur: mitral/tricuspid regurgitation\""
"What is the likely cause of this murmur: mitral valve prolapse"
"What is the likely cause of this harsh-sounding murmur: ventricular septal defect"
"What is the likely cause of this murmur: aortic regurgitation"
"What is the most likely cause of this murmur: mitral stenosis"
"What is the likely cause of this murmur? Patent ductus arteriosus"
"Vasculitis is defined as inflammation of the blood vessel wall"
"The innermost layer of the arterial wall is the intima, which consists of endothelial cells on a basement membrane"
"The middle layer of the arterial wall is the media, which consists of smooth muscle"
"The outer layer of the arterial wall is the adventitia, which consists of connective tissue surrounding blood vessel"
"Vasculitides often present with symptoms of organ ischemia due to thrombosis of inflamed vessels or luminal narrowing from fibrosis"
"Giant cell (temporal) arteritis is a form of large-vessel vasculitis"
"Giant cell (temporal) arteritis is a granulomatous vasculitis that classically involves branches of the carotid artery"
"What demographic is classically affected by giant cell (temporal) arteritis? Elderly females (> 50)"
"Giant cell (temporal) arteritis may present with unilateral headache due to involvement of the temporal artery"
"Giant cell (temporal) arteritis may present with jaw claudication"
"Giant cell (temporal) arteritis may present with visual disturbances due to involvement of the ophthalmic artery"
"Giant cell (temporal) arteritis is associated with polymyalgia rheumatica, which is characterized by aching/stiffness of the shoulders and hips"
"How does the ESR change in a patient with giant cell (temporal) arteritis? Increased (often >100)"
"Biopsy of a patient with giant cell (temporal) arteritis reveals an inflamed vessel with giant cells and focal granulomatous inflammation"
"Biopsy of a patient with giant cell (temporal) arteritis reveals intimal fibrosis"
"The lesions of giant cell (temporal) arteritis are segmental, therefore diagnosis requires biopsy of a long segment of the vessel"
"What is the treatment for a patient with giant cell (temporal) arteritis? High-dose corticosteroids and tocilizumab"
"Without treatment, patients with giant cell (temporal) arteritis are at high risk for blindness"
"Takayasu arteritis is a form of large-vessel vasculitis"
"Takayasu arteritis is a granulomatous thickening and narrowing of the aortic arch and proximal great vessels"
"What demographic is classically affected by Takayasu arteritis? Young Asian females (< 40)"
"Takayasu arteritis may present with visual and neurologic symptoms"
"Takayasu arteritis is associated with a(n) weak or absent pulse in the upper extremity"
"How does the ESR change in a patient with Takayasu arteritis? Increased"
"What is the treatment for a patient with Takayasu arteritis? Corticosteroids"
"Polyarteritis nodosa is a form of medium-vessel vasculitis"
"What demographic is classically affected by polyarteritis nodosa? Middle-aged men::age group"
"Polyarteritis nodosa is a necrotizing vasculitis that involves most organs, except the lungs"
"Polyarteritis nodosa may present with hypertension due to involvement of the renal artery"
"Polyarteritis nodosa may present with abdominal pain and melena due to involvement of the mesenteric artery"
"Polyarteritis nodosa may present with neurologic disturbances/dysfunction"
"Polyarteritis nodosa may present with skin lesions (e.g. cutaneous eruptions) in up to 1/3 of patients"
"Polyarteritis nodosa is a necrotizing vasculitis that is associated with positive serum HBsAg in 30% of patients"
"Early lesions of polyarteritis nodosa are characterized by transmural inflammation with fibrinoid necrosis"
"Late lesions of polyarteritis nodosa are characterized by fibrosis, leading to vessel narrowing"
"The combination of dilatation (aneurysms) and narrowing (fibrosis) in polyarteritis nodosa gives blood vessels a(n) \string of pearls\\" appearance on imaging\""
"Polyarteritis nodosa is characterized by innumerable renal microaneurysms and spasms on arteriogram"
"What drugs may be used to treat a patient with polyarteritis nodosa? Corticosteroids, cyclophosphamide::2"
"Kawasaki disease (mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome) is a form of medium-vessel vasculitis"
"What demographic is classically affected by Kawasaki disease? Asian children < 4 years old"
"Which artery is commonly affected in Kawasaki disease? Coronary artery"
"Patients with Kawasaki disease may develop coronary artery thrombosis, which can lead to myocardial infarction"
"Patients with Kawasaki disease may develop coronary artery aneurysms, which can rupture; therefore, get a(n) echo::diagnostic test"
"The symptoms of Kawasaki disease may be remembered with the mnemonic \CRASH and burn\\": C: Conjunctivitis R: Rash (polymorphous -> desquamating) A: Adenopathy (cervical lymph nodes) S: Strawberry tongue (oral mucositis) H: Hand-foot erythema and edema & Burn: Fever\""
"Treatment for Kawasaki disease includes aspirin and IVIG"
"Buerger disease (thromboangiitis obliterans) is a form of segmenting medium-vessel vasculitis that extends into contiguous veins and nerves"
"What demographic is classically affected by Buerger disease? Heavy smokers, males < 40 years old"
"Buerger disease is a segmental thrombosing vasculitis that commonly involves the digits"
"Buerger disease often presents with intermittent claudication that may lead to gangrene and autoamputation of digits"
"Patients with Buerger disease often experience Raynaud's phenomenon"
"What is the treatment for Buerger disease? Smoking cessation"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener) is a form of small-vessel vasculitis"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener) is a form of necrotizing, granulomatous vasculitis that classically involves the nasopharynx, lungs, and kidneys"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis most commonly affects middle aged men and these patients commonly have a(n) saddle nose deformity"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis often presents with upper respiratory tract symptoms, such as sinusitis or nasopharyngeal ulceration"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis often presents with lower respiratory tract symptoms, such as hemoptysis, cough, and dyspnea"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis often presents with kidney-related symptoms, such as hematuria, red cell casts, and rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis (RPGN)"
"Which vasculitis is characterized by a triad of: (1) Focal necrotizing vasculitis (2) Necrotizing granulomas in the lung and upper airway (3) Necrotizing glomerulonephritis Granulomatosis with polyangiitis"
"What does a chest X-ray of a patient with Granulomatosis with polyangiitis show? Bilateral large nodular densities/infiltrates"
"What significant laboratory finding is associated with Wegener granulomatosis (granulomatosis with polyangiitis)? Positive c-ANCA"
"What drugs may be used to treat Granulomatosis with polyangiitis? Cyclophosphamide, corticosteroids::2"
"Microscopic polyangiitis is a form of small-vessel vasculitis"
"Microscopic polyangiitis is a necrotizing vasculitis that commonly involves the lungs, kidneys, and skin"
"How does microscopic polyangiitis present differently from granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener)?  GPA: + nasopharyngeal involvement, + granulomas, c-ANCA MPA: - nasopharyngeal involvement, - granulomas, p-ANCA ::2 things + bonus: name the antibody"
"What significant laboratory finding is associated with microscopic polyangiitis? Positive p-ANCA"
"What drugs may be used to treat microscopic polyangiitis? Cyclophosphamide, corticosteroids::2"
"Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-strauss) is a form of small-vessel vasculitis"
"What type of white blood cell is elevated in Churg-Strauss syndrome? Eosinophils"
"Which serum immunoglobulin is elevated in Churg-Strauss syndrome? IgE"
"What vasculitis is a granulomatous, necrotizing vasculitis with eosinophilia? Churg-Strauss syndrome (eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis)"
"What two organs are commonly affected by Churg-Strauss syndrome? Heart and lungs"
"What respiratory pathology is commonly associated with Churg-Strauss syndrome? Asthma"
"Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Churg-Strauss), a small-vessel vasculitis, commonly presents with asymmetric multifocal neuropathy, typically manifesting with wrist drop and foot drop"
"What significant laboratory finding is associated with Churg Strauss syndrome (eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis)? Positive p-ANCA"
"Henoch-Schonlein purpura is a form of small-vessel vasculitis"
"What demographic is classically affected by Henoch-Schonlein purpura? Children::age group"
"Henoch-Schonlein purpura is a vasculitis that occurs secondary to IgA immune complex deposition"
"The classic clinical triad of Henoch-Schonlein purpura is palpable purpura on the buttocks and legs, arthralgias, and abdominal pain"
"Henoch-Schonlein purpura is associated with IgA nephropathy (Berger disease)"
"Henoch-Schonlein purpura often occurs following a(n) upper respiratory tract infection, which leads to generation of IgA"
"What is the treatment for Henoch-Schonlein purpura? Disease is self-limited; treat with steroids if severe"
"Hypertension is defined as persistent systolic BP > 130 mmHg and/or diastolic BP > 80 mmHg"
"What ethnicity has the highest risk of developing hypertension? African Americans"
"What ethnicity has the lowest risk of developing hypertension? Asians"
"Primary (essential) hypertension (90-95% of cases) has no known etiology"
"Primary hypertension is related to increased cardiac output and TPR"
"Secondary hypertension (5-10% of cases) is due to an identifiable etiology"
"Secondary hypertension may be caused by renal artery stenosis, which leads to increased plasma renin and unilateral atrophy of the affected kidney"
"What is the most common cause of secondary hypertension in elderly males? Atherosclerosis"
"What is a possible cause of secondary hypertension that occurs in young females? Fibromuscular dysplasia"
"Fibromuscular dysplasia results in the irregular thickening of medium/large arteries which manifests as a \string of beads\\" appearance on imaging\""
"Secondary hypertension may be caused by primary hyper-aldosteronism"
"Hypertensive urgency is defined as severe hypertension (>180 / >120 mmHg) without acute end-organ damage"
"Hypertensive emergency is defined as severe hypertension (>180 / >120 mmHg) with acute end-organ damage"
"Arteriosclerosis is defined as the hardening of arteries, with arterial wall thickening and loss of elasticity"
"Atherosclerosis is a form of arteriosclerosis that damages large- and medium-sized vessels due to buildup of cholesterol plaques"
"Which part of the blood vessel wall is affected by atherosclerosis? Intima"
"Atherosclerosis is caused by a buildup of intimal plaques that obstruct blood flow"
"The intimal plaque that causes atherosclerosis consists of a necrotic lipid core (mostly cholesterol) with a(n) fibromuscular cap"
"The intimal plaque that causes atherosclerosis often undergoes dystrophic calcification"
"What four arteries are most commonly affected by atherosclerosis? Lower abdominal aorta > coronary > popliteal > carotid artery"
"What are the four modifiable risk factors for atherosclerosis? Hypertension, hypercholesterolemia (LDL), smoking, diabetes"
"What are the three non-modifiable risk factors for atherosclerosis? Age, gender, genetics"
"Atherosclerosis begins with endothelial cell dysfunction which allows lipids to leak into the intima"
"Lipids in the intima of an artery are oxidized and then consumed by macrophages via scavenger receptor A receptors"
"Macrophage consumption of oxidized lipids in the intima results in foam cell formation and \fatty streaks\\"\""
"In response to fatty streaks in the intima, there is smooth muscle cell migration/proliferation and extracellular matrix deposition"
"Smooth muscle proliferation and ECM deposition in the arterial intima leads to the formation of fibrous plaques and ultimately complex atheromas"
"Symptoms of atherosclerosis generally present when >70% of a vessel has been occluded (stenosis)"
"One complication of atherosclerosis is peripheral vascular disease, which may result from stenosis of the popliteal artery"
"One complication of atherosclerosis is angina, which may result from stenosis of the coronary artery"
"One complication of atherosclerosis is chronic mesenteric ischemia, which may result from stenosis of the mesenteric artery"
"One complication of atherosclerosis is myocardial infarction, which may result from plaque rupture with thrombosis of the coronary artery"
"One complication of atherosclerosis is stroke, which may result from plaque rupture with thrombosis of the middle cerebral artery"
"Plaque rupture from atherosclerosis may result in atherosclerotic emboli, which are characterized by cholesterol clefts"
"Atherosclerosis may cause weakening of the blood vessel wall, which can result in aneurysm"
"Arteriolosclerosis is a form of arteriosclerosis that damages small arteries and arterioles"
"Hyaline arteriolosclerosis is caused by proteins leaking into the vessel wall, producing vascular thickening"
"What type of arteriolosclerosis is demonstrated in the image below? Hyaline arteriolosclerosis"
"Hyaline arteriolosclerosis results in reduced vessel caliber with end-organ ischemia, which classically produces glomerular scarring"
"Hyperplastic arteriolosclerosis is caused by hyperplasia of smooth muscle, resulting in thickening of the vessel wall"
"What type of arteriolosclerosis is demonstrated in the image below? Hyperplastic arteriolosclerosis"
"Hyperplastic arteriolosclerosis has an 'onion-skin' appearance on histology"
"What underlying pathology is associated with hyperplastic arteriolosclerosis? Severe (malignant) hypertension"
"Hyperplastic arteriolosclerosis may lead to fibrinoid necrosis of the vessel wall with hemorrhage"
"Hyperplastic arteriolosclerosis classically causes acute kidney injury with a 'flea-bitten::gross' appearance"
"Monckeberg sclerosis is an uncommon form of arteriosclerosis that involves calcification of the media of the blood vessel wall"
"Monckeberg sclerosis is non-obstructive and therefore is not clinically significant"
"Monckeberg sclerosis is characterized by a \pipestem\\" appearance on x-ray\""
"Risk of atherosclerosis is increased in men and postmenopausal women"
"Aortic dissection is a longitudinal intimal tear with transmission of blood through the media of the aortic wall"
"Aortic dissection usually occurs in the proximal 10 cm of the aorta (high stress region)"
"The most common cause of aortic dissection in older adults is hypertension"
"Hyaline arteriolosclerosis of the vasa vasorum results in atrophy of the aortic media and weakening of the vessel wall"
"Aortic dissection is associated with inherited connective tissue disorders"
"Aortic dissection is associated with a(n) bicuspid aortic valve"
"Aortic dissection may present with sudden sharp, tearing chest pain that radiates to the back"
"Chest X-ray of a patient with aortic dissection shows mediastinal widening"
"Aortic dissection may lead to obstruction of branching arteries, thus causing end-organ ischemia"
"Aortic dissection may result in rupture into the mediastinum, causing fatal hemorrhage"
"Aortic dissection may result in cardiac tamponade as a result of backflow into the pericardium"
"Stanford type A (proximal) aortic dissection involves the ascending aorta"
"Stanford type B (distal) aortic dissection involves the descending aorta and/or the aortic arch"
"What is the treatment for Stanford type A aortic dissection? Surgery"
"What is the treatment for Stanford type B aortic dissection? β-blockers, then vasodilators"
"Aortic aneurysm is a localized pathologic dilatation of the aorta"
"Aortic aneurysm may cause abdominal and/or back pain, which is a sign of leaking, dissection, or imminent rupture"
"Thoracic aortic aneurysm is classically seen in patients with tertiary syphilis due to endarteritis of the vasa vasorum"
"Tertiary syphilis results in a 'tree-bark' appearance of the aorta"
"Thoracic aortic aneurysm is associated with cystic medial degeneration (e.g. Marfan syndrome)"
"Risk factors for thoracic aneurysm include bicuspid aortic valve and hypertension"
"Thoracic aneurysm is associated with inherited connective tissue disorders"
"A major complication of thoracic aneurysm is dilation of the aortic valve root resulting in aortic regurgitation (insufficiency)"
"Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) usually arises below the renal arteries, but above the aortic birfucation"
"The two underlying pathological processes that are associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm are chronic transmural inflammation and atherosclerosis"
"What demographic is commonly associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm? Males > 60 (usually a smoker with HTN)"
"Abdominal aortic aneurysm may present as a palpable, pulsatile abdominal mass that grows with time"
"A major complication associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm is rupture, especially when >5 cm in diameter"
"Abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture presents with a triad of hypotension, a pulsatile abdominal mass, and flank pain"
"Traumatic aortic rupture (due to trauma and/or deceleration injury) most commonly occurs at the aortic isthmus"
"Hemangiomas are benign tumors comprised of blood vessels"
"Hemangiomas most often involve the skin and liver"
"Hemangiomas commonly present at birth and often regress during childhood"
"Angiosarcomas are highly aggressive malignant proliferations of endothelial cells"
"Where is a murmur due to aortic regurgitation the loudest? Left sternal border"
"Where is a murmur due to atrial septal defect the loudest? Pulmonic Area"
"Where is a murmur due to pulmonic stenosis the loudest? Pulmonic area"
"Ischemic heart disease is usually due to atherosclerosis of coronary arteries"
"Angina is chest pain due to myocardial ischemia (secondary to coronary artery narrowing or spasm)"
"Does angina cause myocyte necrosis? No, damage is reversible"
"Stable angina is characterized by chest pain that arises with exertion or emotional stress"
"Stable angina is often due to atherosclerosis of coronary arteries with >70% stenosis"
"Stable angina often presents with chest pain lasting < 20 minutes that radiates to the left arm or jaw"
"Stable angina is often relieved by rest or with nitroglycerin"
"What ECG findings are associated with stable angina? ST-segment depression (subendocardial ischemia)"
"Unstable angina is characterized by chest pain that occurs during rest"
"Unstable angina is due to rupture of atherosclerotic plaque with thrombosis and incomplete occlusion of a coronary artery"
"What ECG findings are associated with unstable angina? ST-segment depression and/or T-wave inversion::2"
"What drug may be used to relieve symptoms due to unstable angina? Nitroglycerin"
"Unstable angina has a high risk of progression to myocardial infarction"
"Vasospastic (variant/prinzmetal) angina is characterized by episodic chest pain during rest due to coronary artery spasm"
"What ECG findings are associated with vasospastic angina? ST-segment elevation (transmural ischemia)"
"Vasospastic angina is relieved by nitrate drugs, dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers, and smoke cessation (if applicable)"
"Known triggers of Vasospastic angina include tobacco, cocaine, and triptans"
"Coronary steal syndrome occurs when administration of vasodilators shunts blood towards well-perfused areas, increasing ischemia in post-stenotic regions"
"Coronary steal syndrome occurs because distal to coronary stenosis, vessels are maximally dilated at baseline"
"Coronary steal syndrome is the principle behind pharmacologic stress tests"
"Does myocardial infarction cause myocyte necrosis? Yes, damage is irreversible"
"Myocardial infarction is often due to rupture of atherosclerotic plaque with thrombosis and complete occlusion of a coronary artery"
"Myocardial infarction often presents with severe crushing chest pain lasting > 20 minutes that radiates to the left arm or jaw"
"One less common cause of myocardial infarction is coronary artery vasospasm (e.g. vasospastic angina, cocaine use)"
"One less common cause of myocardial infarction is vasculitis (e.g. Kawasaki disease)"
"Myocardial infarction may present with dyspnea due to pulmonary congestion and edema"
"What heart chamber is most commonly affected by myocardial infarction? Left ventricle"
"Myocardial infarction most commonly involves the left anterior descending (LAD) artery (45%)"
"The second most common artery involved in a myocardial infarction is the right coronary artery"
"The third most common artery involved in a myocardial infarction is the left circumflex artery"
"The initial phase of myocardial infarction leads to subendocardial::region necrosis involving < 50% of the myocardial thickness"
"The initial phase of myocardial infarction (subendocardial infarcts) shows ST-segment depression on ECG"
"The later phase of myocardial infarction (transmural infarcts) shows ST-segment elevation and Q waves on ECG"
"When suspecting a myocardial infarction, laboratory tests are used to detect elevated cardiac enzymes"
"In the first 6 hours, either ECG or troponin are the gold standards for diagnosis of myocardial infarction"
"What is the most sensitive and specific cardiac biomarker used for diagnosis of myocardial infarction? Troponin I"
"Troponin I levels rise 2-4 hours after an MI and peak at 24 hours"
"Troponin I levels return to normal 7-10 days after an MI"
"CK-MB is a cardiac biomarker that is useful for detecting reinfarction following acute MI"
"CK-MB levels rise 6-12 hours after an MI and peak at 16-24 hours"
"CK-MB levels return to normal 48-72 hours after an MI"
"Large myocardial infarctions lead to greater elevations in troponin I and CK-MB"
"CK-MB is predominantly found in myocardium, but can also be released from skeletal muscle"
"What anti-coagulation drug is frequently used to treat acute coronary syndromes (e.g. unstable angina, STEMI, NSTEMI)? Heparin"
"Treatment of acute coronary syndromes (e.g. unstable angina, STEMI, NSTEMI) often includes antiplatelet therapy such as aspirin"
"Treatment of acute coronary syndromes often includes a(n) ADP receptor inhibitor such as clopidogrel"
"Treatment of acute coronary syndromes often includes β-blockers, which decrease heart rate and reduces risk of arrhythmia"
"Treatment of acute coronary syndromes often includes ACE inhibitors to decrease left ventricular dilation"
"Treatment of acute coronary syndromes often includes supplemental O2 to minimize ischemia"
"Initial treatment of acute coronary syndrome includes MONA (MONA greets chest pain patients at the door) - Morphine - Oxygen - Nitroglycerin - Aspirin"
"The most important treatment for STEMI is reperfusion therapy, such as angioplasty (preferred) or fibrinolysis"
"Reperfusion of irreversibly-damaged cells post-MI may result in Ca2+ influx, leading to hypercontraction of myofibrils (contraction band necrosis)"
"Reperfusion of irreversibly-damaged cells post-MI may result in free radical formation (due to O2), further damaging myocytes (known as reperfusion injury)"
"What gross changes occur during the first 4 hours of a myocardial infarction? None :)"
"What microscopic changes occur during the first 4 hours of a myocardial infarction? None :)"
"One complication that may occur during the first 4 hours post-MI is cardiogenic shock, which occurs due to lack of blood flow to vital organs"
"One complication that may occur during the first 4 hours post-MI is congestive heart failure, which occurs due to inefficient pumping of the left ventricle"
"One complication that may occur during the first 24 hours post-MI is arrhythmia, which is an important cause of death before reaching the hospital"
"What gross changes occur from 4 - 24 hours post-MI? Dark discoloration"
"What microscopic changes occur from 4 - 24 hours post-MI? Coagulative necrosis"
"What gross changes occur from 1 - 3 days post-MI? Yellow pallor"
"What microscopic changes occur from 1 - 3 days post-MI? Neutrophils (acute inflammation)"
"Fibrinous pericarditis is an inflammatory post-MI complication that occurs after 2* to 4* days"
"Fibrinous pericarditis is a post-MI complication that presents as chest pain with friction rub"
"What gross changes occur from 4 - 7 days post-MI? Yellow pallor"
"What microscopic changes occur from 3 - 10 days post-MI? Macrophage infiltration (acute inflammation)*"
"One complication that may occur 5 - 14 days post-MI is ventricular free wall rupture, which causes cardiac tamponade"
"One complication that may occur 3 - 5 days post-MI is interventricular septal rupture, which causes a ventricular septal defect (VSD)"
"One complication that may occur 3 - 5 days post-MI is papillary muscle rupture, which often causes mitral regurgitation"
"At 10 - 14 days post-MI, the following gross changes occur: emergence of the red border; due to granulation tissue entering from the edge of the infarct"
"What microscopic changes occur from 3 - 14 days post-MI? Granulation tissue*"
"What gross changes occur months after an MI? White scar"
"What microscopic changes occur months after an MI? Fibrosis"
"True ventricular aneurysm is a complication that may occur months after an MI and increases risk for mural thrombus"
"Dressler syndrome is an autoimmune complication that may occur several weeks (6-8) after an MI"
"Dressler syndrome is a(n) autoimmune phenomenon that results in fibrinous pericarditis following an MI (> 1 month)"
"Sudden cardiac death is death from cardiac causes within 1 hour of onset of symptoms"
"Sudden cardiac death is most commonly due to a lethal arrhythmia (e.g. ventricular fibrillation)"
"Sudden cardiac death may be prevented with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD)"
"90% of patients who suffer sudden cardiac death have pre-existing severe atherosclerosis"
"Chronic ischemic heart disease is the progressive onset of heart failure over many years due to chronic ischemic myocardial damage"
"Ventricular pseudo-aneurysm is a contained free wall rupture that may occur 3 - 14 days post-MI"
"Which artery is associated with anteroseptal myocardial infarction? Left anterior descending (LAD) artery"
"What leads show ST elevations or Q waves in an anteroseptal myocardial infarction? V1 - V2::2"
"Which artery is associated with anteroapical myocardial infarction? Distal left anterior descending (LAD) artery"
"What leads show ST elevations or Q waves in an anteroapical myocardial infarction? V3 - V4::2"
"Which arteries may be associated with anterolateral myocardial infarction? LAD or LCX::2"
"What leads show ST elevations or Q waves in an anterolateral myocardial infarction? V5 - V6::2"
"Which artery is associated with lateral myocardial infarction? Left circumflex (LCX) artery"
"What leads show ST elevations or Q waves in a lateral myocardial infarction? I, aVL::2"
"Which artery is typically associated with inferior myocardial infarction? Right coronary artery (RCA)"
"What leads show ST elevations or Q waves in an inferior myocardial infarction? II, III, aVF::3"
"Which artery is associated with posterior myocardial infarction? Posterior descending artery (PDA)"
"What leads show ST elevations or Q waves in a posterior myocardial infarction? V7 - V9"
"Heart failure is a clinical syndrome of cardiac pump dysfunction which causes congestion and low perfusion"
"How does ejection fraction change in heart failure with systolic dysfunction? Reduced EF"
"How does EDV change in heart failure with systolic dysfunction? Increased EDV"
"Systolic dysfunction (heart failure) occurs due to decreased contractility, often secondary to ischemia/MI or dilated cardiomyopathy"
"How does ejection fraction change in heart failure with diastolic dysfunction? Preserved EF"
"How does EDV change in heart failure with diastolic dysfunction? Normal EDV"
"Diastolic dysfunction (heart failure) occurs due to decreased compliance, often secondary to myocardial concentric hypertrophy"
"What is the most common cause of right heart failure? Left heart failure"
"Right heart failure may be caused by a long-standing left-to-right shunt"
"Cor pulmonale refers to isolated right heart failure due to pulmonary cause"
"Clinical features of left heart failure are due to decreased forward perfusion with consequent pulmonary congestion"
"Left::Left or Right heart failure may present with orthopnea, which is shortness of breath when supine"
"Left heart failure may present with paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, which is breathless awakening from sleep"
"Left heart failure may present with pulmonary edema due to increased pulmonary venous pressure"
"Left heart failure may present with hemosiderin-laden macrophages, known as heart failure cells, in the lungs"
"Left heart failure causes decreased forward perfusion to the kidneys, resulting in activation of the renin-angiotensin system"
"Clinical features of right heart failure are due to systemic congestion"
"Right heart failure may cause jugular venous distension due to increased systemic venous pressure"
"Right heart failure may cause painful hepatosplenomegaly, which rarely may progress to \cardiac cirrhosis\\"\""
"Right heart failure is associated with a characteristic \nutmeg\\" appearance of the liver\""
"Right heart failure is associated with peripheral edema due to increased venous pressure and thus fluid transudation"
"Heart failure may present with dependent pitting edema due to increased hydrostatic pressure"
"What sound on respiratory exam may be associated with heart failure? Rales / crackles"
"A mainstay of treatment for left heart failure is ACE inhibitors, which help counteract fluid retention and prevent heart remodeling"
"Congenital heart defects arise during embryogenesis, usually in weeks 3 through 8"
"Defects with left-to-right shunting may be relatively asymptomatic at birth, but the shunt can eventually reverse"
"Left-to-right shunting results in increased flow through the pulmonary circulation, causing pulmonary hypertension"
"The pulmonary hypertension seen with long-standing left-to-right shunts causes the right ventricle to hypertrophy"
"The combination of right ventricle hypertrophy and pulmonary hypertension in response to left-to-right shunting results in shunt reversal"
"Uncorrected left-to-right shunting eventually results in reversal, which presents with late cyanosis (Eisenmenger syndrome)"
"Eisenmenger syndrome is characterized by a triad of late cyanosis, clubbing, and polycythemia"
"Compared to right-to-left shunts, left-to-right shunts lead to cyanosis at a(n) later age"
"Compared to left-to-right shunts, right-to-left shunts lead to cyanosis at a(n) earlier age"
"What is the most common congenital heart defect? Ventricular Septal Defect (VSD)"
"Ventricular septal defect (VSD) is associated with fetal alcohol syndrome"
"Ventricular septal defect (VSD) results in a(n) left-to-right shunt"
"Smaller ventricular septal defects are often asymptomatic and may close spontaneously, but on physical exam will present with a(n) murmur"
"How is a large ventricular septal defect treated? Surgical closure"
"What symptoms does ventricular septal defect typically present with at birth? Typically asymptomatic"
"Larger ventricular septal defects may lead to left ventricle overload and, consequently, heart failure"
"What is the most common type of Atrial Septal Defect (ASD)? Ostium secundum (90%)"
"Ostium primum is a less common type of atrial septal defect that is associated with Down syndrome"
"Atrial septal defect (ASD) results in a(n) left-to-right shunt"
"What effect does atrial septal defect (ASD) have on S2 splitting? Causes a wide, fixed split"
"Paradoxical emboli, an important complication of atrial septal defect, are emboli that arise on the right-side of the body and crossover to lodge on the left side"
"Atrial septal defect may be distinguished from a patent foramen ovale in that the septa are missing tissue rather than unfused"
"Patent ductus arteriosus is associated with congenital rubella infection"
"In the fetal period, the ductus arteriosus acts as a(n) right-to-left shunt"
"In the neonatal period, a patent ductus arteriosus becomes a(n) left-to-right shunt as pulmonary vascular resistance decreases"
"Patency of a patent ductus arteriosus is maintained by PGE synthesis and low O2 tension"
"Uncorrected patent ductus arteriosus may eventually result in late cyanosis in the lower extremities"
"Treatment of a patent ductus arteriosus involves indomethacin, which decreases PGE, resulting in PDA closure"
"Tetralogy of Fallot is a congenital heart disease that is characterized by: 1. Pulmonary infundibular stenosis 2. Right ventricular hypertrophy 3. Overriding aorta 4. Ventricular septal defect (VSD)"
"Tetralogy of Fallot results in a(n) right-to-left shunt with early cyanosis"
"The degree of shunting in Tetralogy of Fallot is determined by the degree of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction (from pulmonary stenosis)"
"Tetralogy of Fallot is characterized by a(n) boot-shaped heart on CXR"
"Patients with Tetralogy of Fallot often experience \tet spells\\" which may be caused by crying"
"Patients with Tetralogy of Fallot may squat in response to cyanotic spells, which decreases right-to-left shunting by increasing systemic vascular resistance (SVR)"
"What is the most common congenital heart defect that causes early cyanosis? Tetralogy of Fallot"
"Tetralogy of Fallot is caused by anterosuperior displacement of the infundibular septum"
"D-transposition of the great vessels is characterized by the pulmonary artery arising from the left ventricle and aorta from the right ventricle"
"D-transposition of the great vessels and VSD are associated with maternal diabetes::endocrine disorder"
"D-transposition of great vessels is not compatible with life unless a(n) shunt is created"
"D-transposition of great vessels is due to failure of the aorticopulmonary septum to spiral"
"PGE may be administered to patients with D-transposition of great vessels to maintain a PDA until definitive surgical repair is performed"
"D-transposition of great vessels results in hypertrophy of the right ventricle and atrophy of the left ventricle"
"D-transposition of great vessels is an example of a(n) right-to-left shunt"
"Persistent truncus arteriosus is a congenital heart disease characterized by a single large vessel arising from both ventricles before eventually splitting"
"Truncus arteriosus is an example of a(n) right-to-left shunt"
"Most patients with truncus arteriosus have accompanying ventricular septal defect"
"Tricuspid atresia is the failure of the tricuspid valve orifice to develop"
"Tricuspid atresia leads to right ventricle hypoplasia"
"Tricuspid atresia requires both ASD and VSD for viability"
"Tricuspid atresia is an example of a(n) right-to-left shunt"
"Coarctation of the aorta is the narrowing of the aorta near the insertion of the ductus arteriosus"
"The infantile form of coarctation of the aorta is associated with a(n) PDA"
"In the infantile form, coarctation of the aorta lies after the aortic arch, but before the PDA"
"Coarctation of the aorta in infants presents as lower extremity cyanosis, often at birth"
"The infantile form of coarctation of the aorta is associated with Turner syndrome"
"In the adult form, coarctation of the aorta lies after the aortic arch"
"Coarctation of the aorta in adults presents as hypertension in the upper extremities and hypotension in the lower extremities"
"In the adult form of coarctation of the aorta, collateral circulation develops most notably across the intercostal arteries"
"What X-ray finding is associated with the adult form of coarctation of the aorta? 'Notching' of ribs (due to engorged intercostal arteries)"
"Coarctation of the aorta is associated with a(n) bicuspid aortic valve and an increased risk of developing berry aneurysms"
"What congenital heart defect is associated with lithium exposure in utero? Ebstein anomaly"
"Ebstein anomaly is a congenital heart disease characterized by downward displacement of tricuspid leaflets into the right ventricle"
"Ebstein anomaly is associated with tricuspid regurgitation and right heart failure"
"Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) is a congenital heart disease characterized by drainage of pulmonary veins into the right circulation"
"Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) is associated with ASD and sometimes PDA to allow for right-to-left shunting"
"Class I antiarrhythmics exert their actions by blocking Na+ channels"
"Class I antiarrhythmics decrease the slope of phase 0 (upstroke) of the myocardial action potential"
"What effect do class I antiarrhythmics have on conduction velocity of the myocardial action potential? Decreased CV"
"Class I antiarrhythmics bind to Na+ channels in their open or inactivated state"
"Na+ channels in rapidly depolarizing tissue (e.g. tachycardia) spend the most time in open or inactivated states"
"Class I antiarrhythmics have use dependence and thus selectively depress tissue that is frequently depolarized"
"What effect do class I antiarrhythmics have on the action potentials of the SA and AV nodes? No effect (only affects Na+-dependent action potentials)"
"Class I antiarrhythmics widen the QRS complex on ECG"
"What drug class does quinidine belong to? Class IA antiarrhythmics"
"Toxic doses of quinidine, an antiarrhythmic drug, may cause cinchonism, which is a syndrome of tinnitus, headache, and dizziness"
"Quinidine is an anti-arrhythmic that rarely causes immunologic reactions, resulting in thrombocytopenia"
"What drug class does procainamide belong to? Class IA antiarrhythmics"
"Procainamide, a class IA antiarrhythmic, can cause a reversible SLE-like syndrome as an adverse effect"
"What drug class does disopyramide belong to? Class IA antiarrhythmics"
"One adverse effect associated with disopyramide is exacerbation of heart failure, due to its negative inotropic effects"
"Class IA antiarrhythmics can cause QT interval prolongation which precipitates torsades de pointes"
"Class IA antiarrhythmics have a(n) intermediate binding affinity for the Na+ channel"
"In addition to Na+ channels, Class IA antiarrhythmics also block K+ channels"
"What effect do class IA antiarrhythmics have on action potential duration? Increased duration"
"What effect do class IA antiarrhythmics have on the effective refractory period in the ventricular tissue? Increased ERP"
"Are class IA antiarrhythmics used to treat supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias? Both :)"
"Class IA antiarrhythmics may be used to treat Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome, a type of SVT"
"What drug class does lidocaine belong to? Class IB antiarrhythmics"
"What antiarrhythmic drug class does phenytoin belong to? Class IB antiarrhythmics (anti-epileptic but has class IB properties)"
"What drug class does mexiletine belong to? Class IB antiarrhythmics"
"Class IB antiarrhythmics have a(n) low binding affinity for the Na+ channel"
"What effect do class IB antiarrhythmics have on action potential duration? Shortened duration"
"Class IB antiarrhythmics treat ventricular arrhythmias, especially in ischemic tissue (e.g. post-MI)"
"Class IB antiarrhythmics may be used to treat digitalis-induced arrhythmias"
"Class IB antiarrhythmics can cause neurological side effects (e.g. paresthesias, tremor, convulsions)"
"What drug class does flecainide belong to? Class IC antiarrhythmics"
"What drug class does propafenone belong to? Class IC antiarrhythmics"
"Class IC antiarrhythmics have a(n) strong binding affinity for the Na+ channel"
"What effect do class IC antiarrhythmics have on action potential duration? No effect"
"What effect do class IC antiarrhythmics have on the effective refractory period in the AV node and accessory bypass tracts? Significant prolongation of ERP"
"What effect do class IC antiarrhythmics have on the effective refractory period in the Purkinje and ventricular tissue? No effect"
"Are class IC antiarrhythmics used to treat supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias? Both :)"
"Class IC antiarrhythmics are especially effective at treating atrial fibrillation (and flutter)"
"Class IC antiarrhythmics can restore and maintain normal sinus rhythm in atrial fibrillation and flutter"
"Class IC antiarrhythmics may have proarrhythmic effects and are thus contraindicated in patients with structural heart disease or ischemic heart disease"
"Acute rheumatic fever is a consequence of pharyngeal infection with group A β-hemolytic streptococci"
"Acute rheumatic fever most commonly affects children 2 - 3 weeks after an episode of streptococcal pharyngitis (\strep throat\\")\""
"Acute rheumatic fever is immune-mediated, not a direct effect of bacteria"
"Acute rheumatic fever is caused by molecular mimicry due to resemblance of bacterial M protein with proteins in human tissue"
"Evidence of prior group A β-hemolytic streptococcal infection includes elevated anti-streptolysin O (ASO) or anti-DNase B titers"
"Minor criteria for rheumatic fever are nonspecific and include fever and elevated ESR"
"The major criteria for the diagnosis of rheumatic fever are the J♥NES criteria"
"What does the J in J♥NES criteria represent? Joint (migratory polyarthritis)"
"What does the ♥ in J♥NES criteria represent? Pancarditis (includes endocarditis, myocarditis, and pericarditis)"
"Endocarditis secondary to rheumatic fever most commonly affects the mitral valve"
"Endocarditis, secondary to rheumatic fever, is characterized by small vegetations along valvular lines of closure, which cause regurgitation"
"Severe pancarditis is the most common cause of death during the acute phase of rheumatic fever"
"Myocarditis, secondary to rheumatic fever, is associated with Aschoff bodies, which are granulomas with giant cells and fibrinoid material"
"Myocarditis, secondary to rheumatic fever, is associated with Anitschkow cells, which are reactive histiocytes with slender, wavy nuclei"
"Pericarditis most often presents with friction rub and chest pain"
"What does the N in J♥NES criteria represent? Nodules in skin (subcutaneous)"
"What does the E in J♥NES criteria represent? Erythema marginatum"
"What does the S in J♥NES criteria represent? Sydenham chorea"
"Acute rheumatic fever attack usually resolves, but may progress to chronic rheumatic heart disease"
"What drug is used for treatment or prophylaxis of rheumatic fever? Penicillin"
"What is the most common heart valve affected by rheumatic heart disease? Mitral valve"
"What is the second most common heart valve affected by rheumatic heart disease? Aortic valve"
"Early (acute) lesions of rheumatic heart disease cause mitral regurgitation"
"Late (chronic) lesions of rheumatic heart disease cause mitral stenosis"
"Chronic rheumatic heart disease results in stenosis with a classic 'fish-mouth' appearance"
"Occasionally, chronic rheumatic heart disease involves the aortic valve, leading to fusion of the commissures"
"Complications of chronic rheumatic heart disease include infectious endocarditis"
"The most common cause of aortic stenosis is degenerative calcification from \wear and tear\\"\""
"What demographic is most commonly affected by aortic stenosis? Older adults (> 60)::age group"
"Symptomatic aortic stenosis may present in patients around age 50 with a(n) bicuspid aortic valve"
"Aortic stenosis may arise as a consequence of chronic rheumatic valve disease"
"Aortic stenosis due to rheumatic disease may be distinguished from stenosis due to \wear and tear\\" by the presence of: 1. Coexisting mitral stenosis 2. Fusion of the commissures\""
"Compensation for aortic stenosis leads to a prolonged asymptomatic stage"
"Aortic stenosis may present with syncope, angina, and dyspnea on exertion"
"Aortic stenosis may lead to concentric::con/e-centric left ventricular hypertrophy, which can further progress to heart failure"
"Aortic stenosis may cause macroangiopathic hemolytic anemia as RBCs are damaged while crossing the calcified valve, producing schistocytes"
"Aortic stenosis is associated with \Pulsus parvus et tardus\\""
"Treatment for aortic stenosis is valve replacement after the onset of complications"
"What is the most common cause of aortic regurgitation? Isolated aortic root dilation"
"Aortic regurgitation arises due to aortic root dilation (e.g. syphilitic aneurysm, aortic dissection) or valve damage (e.g. infectious endocarditis)"
"One clinical feature of aortic regurgitation is hyperdynamic circulation due to increased (widened) pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of aortic regurgitation on diastolic pressure? Decreased pressure"
"What is the effect of aortic regurgitation on systolic pressure? Increased pressure"
"Aortic regurgitation may present with a(n) bounding pulse (Corrigan / Water-hammer pulse), pulsating nail bed (Quincke pulse), and head bobbing when severe"
"Aortic regurgitation may lead to left ventricle dilation with eccentric hypertrophy, which can progress to left heart failure"
"Treatment for aortic regurgitation is valve replacement before LV dysfunction develops"
"Mitral valve prolapse is the ballooning of the mitral valve into the left atrium during systole"
"Mitral valve prolapse is caused by myxoid degeneration of the valve, making it floppy"
"Mitral valve prolapse complications are rare but include infective endocarditis, arrhythmia, and severe mitral regurgitation"
"What is the treatment for mitral valve prolapse? Valve replacement"
"Mitral regurgitation usually arises as a complication of mitral valve prolapse"
"Mitral regurgitation may be caused by left ventricle dilatation"
"Chronic mitral regurgitation may result in volume overload and left-sided heart failure"
"Mitral stenosis is usually due to chronic rheumatic valve disease"
"A(n) decreased interval between A2/S2 and the opening snap of a mitral stenosis murmur correlates with increased disease severity"
"Chronic mitral stenosis may result in left atrium dilatation due to volume overload"
"Increased LA pressure as a result of mitral stenosis may lead to pulmonary congestion with edema and alveolar hemorrhage"
"One possible complication of mitral stenosis is pulmonary hypertension and eventual right-sided heart failure"
"One possible complication of mitral stenosis is atrial fibrillation with associated risk for mural thrombi"
"Endocarditis is inflammation of endocardium that lines the surface of cardiac valves (usually due to bacterial infection)"
"What bacteria is the most common cause of subacute endocarditis? Viridans streptococci"
"What type of heart valve does viridans streptococci infect? Previously damaged valves::normal vs damaged"
"viridans streptococci cause subacute endocarditis, which is characterized by small::size vegetations that do not destroy the valve"
"When the surface of the endocardium is damaged, thrombotic vegetations of platelets and fibrin may develop"
"Subacute endocarditis is often a sequela of dental procedures"
"Prophylactic antibiotics decrease risk of subacute endocarditis"
"What bacteria is the most common cause of endocarditis in IV drug users? Staphylococcus aureus"
"Which heart valve is most frequently involved in bacterial endocarditis? Mitral valve"
"Which heart valve is most frequently involved in bacterial endocarditis in IV drug users? Tricuspid valve"
"What type of heart valve does Staphylococcus aureus infect? Normal heart valves (undamaged)::damaged vs normal"
"Staphylococcus aureus causes acute endocarditis, which is characterized by large::size vegetations that destroy the valve"
"Staphylococcus epidermidis infection is associated with endocarditis in patients with prosthetic valves"
"Streptococcus bovis (gallolyticus) infection is associated with endocarditis in patients with underlying colorectal carcinoma"
"Endocarditis due to S. aureus is characterized by high virulence and rapid onset"
"Endocarditis due to viridans streptococci is characterized by low virulence and gradual onset"
"The HACEK organisms (Haemophilus, Aggregatibacter, Cardiobacterium, Eikenella, Kingella) are associated with endocarditis with negative blood cultures"
"What is the most common symptom of bacterial endocarditis? Fever"
"One symptom associated with bacterial endocarditis is Roth spots, which are round, white spots on the retina surrounded by hemorrhage"
"One symptom associated with bacterial endocarditis is Osler nodes, which are tender, raised lesions on the finger or toe pads"
"One symptom associated with bacterial endocarditis is murmur, which occurs as blood flows over vegetations on the heart valve"
"One symptom associated with bacterial endocarditis is Janeway lesions, which are small, nontender, erythematous lesions on the palm or sole"
"One symptom associated with bacterial endocarditis is anemia of chronic disease, which occurs as a result of increased release of hepcidin"
"One symptom associated with bacterial endocarditis is splinter hemorrhages in the nail bed"
"One symptom associated with bacterial endocarditis is septic arterial or pulmonary emboli"
"Bacterial endocarditis requires multiple blood cultures for diagnosis"
"Transesophageal echocardiogram may be used to detect lesions on heart valves, which aids in the diagnosis of bacterial endocarditis"
"Non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis is due to sterile vegetations that arise in association with a(n) hypercoagulable state or underlying adenocarcinoma"
"Non-bacterial thrombotic endocarditis often results in sterile vegetations on the mitral valve along lines of closure, which results in regurgitation"
"Libman-Sacks (verrucous) endocarditis is due to sterile vegetations that arise in association with SLE"
"Libman-Sacks (verrucous) endocarditis is unique in that vegetations typically present on both side(s) of the mitral valve, resulting in regurgitation"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy is the dilation of all four chambers of the heart"
"What is the most common form of cardiomyopathy (90%)? Dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy results in systolic::systolic or diastolic dysfunction"
"Systolic dysfunction as a result of dilated cardiomyopathy may lead to biventricular congestive heart failure"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy may result in mitral and tricuspid valve regurgitation due to stretching of the valves"
"What type of hypertrophy is seen in dilated cardiomyopathy? Eccentric hypertrophy (sarcomeres added in series)"
"The cause of dilated cardiomyopathy is most commonly idiopathic"
"Familial dilated cardiomyopathy is often due to autosomal dominant diseases"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy may be caused by myocarditis, secondary to coxsackie B infection"
"Myocarditis, secondary to coxsackie B infection, is characterized by a(n) lymphocytic infiltrate in the myocardium"
"Chronic alcohol abuse increases risk for dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Chronic cocaine abuse increases risk for dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy may be caused by Chagas disease, which is the result of a parasitic infection"
"What anti-neoplastic agent is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy? Doxorubicin"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy may be seen during the last month of pregnancy or within five months of childbirth (\peripartum cardiomyopathy\\")\""
"Dilated cardiomyopathy may be caused by wet beriberi, which is the result of a vitamin B1 deficiency"
"What pathologic heart sound may be heard with dilated cardiomyopathy? S3"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy is associated with a(n) balloon appearance of the heart on CXR"
"One possible treatment for dilated cardiomyopathy is heart transplant"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is characterized by massive ventricular hypertrophy, often with septal predominance"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy usually arises due to genetic mutations (60-70%), especially in sarcomere proteins"
"Mutations that cause hypertrophic cardiomyopathy most commonly have a(n) autosomal dominant inheritance pattern"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is associated with the trinucleotide repeat expansion disease Friedreich ataxia"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy causes diastolic::systolic or diastolic dysfunction"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy leads to decreased cardiac output due to decreased compliance of the left ventricle"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is associated with sudden death in young athletes due to ventricular arrhythmia"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy causes syncope with exercise due to subaortic hypertrophy of the ventricular septum, resulting in functional aortic stenosis"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is characterized by myofibrillar hypertrophy with disarray and fibrosis on biopsy"
"What pathologic heart sound may be heard with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? S4"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may impair mitral valve closure, thus causing regurgitation"
"Restrictive cardiomyopathy is primarily characterized by decreased compliance of the ventricular endomyocardium"
"Causes of restrictive cardiomyopathy include amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, post-radiation fibrosis, and eosinophilic syndromes of the heart (loeffler endocarditis, endomyocardial fibrosis)"
"Restrictive cardiomyopathy causes diastolic::systolic or diastolic dysfunction"
"Restrictive cardiomyopathy may be caused by endocardial fibroelastosis, which is a thick fibroelastic tissue in the endocardium; most commonly affects young children"
"Restrictive cardiomyopathy may be caused by Loeffler syndrome, which is an endomyocardial fibrosis with a prominent eosinophilic infiltrate"
"Restrictive cardiomyopathy presents with a(n) low-voltage ECG with a diminished QRS amplitude"
"Cardiac myxomas are benign mesenchymal tumors with a gelatinous appearance and abundant ground substance on histology"
"What is the most common primary cardiac tumor in adults? Myxoma"
"Cardiac myxomas usually form a pedunculated mass in the left atrium (80%), which may cause syncope due to obstruction of the mitral valve"
"Rhabdomyomas are benign hamartomas of cardiac muscle"
"What is the most common primary cardiac tumor in children? Rhabdomyoma"
"Rhabdomyoma is a cardiac tumor associated with tuberous sclerosis::other pathology"
"The most common heart tumor is a(n) metastasis"
"Metastases to the heart most commonly involve the pericardium, resulting in a pericardial effusion"
"What type of drug are class II antiarrhythmics? β-blockers"
"Metoprolol, propranolol, and esmolol are all examples of class II antiarrhythmics"
"Atenolol, timolol, and carvedilol are all examples of class II antiarrhythmics"
"Class II antiarrhythmics treat arrhythmias by blocking sympathetic input to the SA and AV nodes"
"What effect do Class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) have on cAMP levels? Decreased cAMP"
"Decreased cAMP as a result of class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) leads to the closure of membrane Ca2+ channels"
"Class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) suppress abnormal pacemakers by decreasing the slope of phase 4 of the nodal action potential"
"The AV node is particularly sensitive to class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers)"
"Are class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) used to treat supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias? Supraventricular"
"Intravenous::mode of delivery class II antiarrhythmics, such as esmolol, can be used for intra-operative or other acute supraventricular arrhythmias (very short acting)"
"One possible adverse effect of class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) is heart block due to decreased conduction through the AV node"
"Class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) may induce heart (AV) block, which manifests as a prolonged PR interval on ECG"
"Class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) are useful in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (and flutter)"
"Class II antiarrhythmics (β-blockers) are useful in preventing rapid ventricular response (RVR) in atrial fibrillation and flutter (\rate control\\")\""
"What classes of antiarrhythmics are used for ventricular rate control in atrial fibrillation and flutter? Class II and IV::2"
"What classes of antiarrhythmics are used for rhythm control in atrial fibrillation and flutter? Class IC and III::2"
"What type of drug are class III antiarrhythmics? K+ channel blockers"
"What effect do class III antiarrhythmics have on action potential duration? Increased AP duration"
"What effect do class III antiarrhythmics have on effective refractory period? Increased ERP"
"Class III antiarrhythmics (K+ channel blockers) exert their effects by prolonging phase 2 and 3 of the myocardial action potential"
"Amiodarone is a lipophilic class III antiarrhythmic that also shares properties with class I, II, and IV antiarrhythmics"
"What drug class do dofetilide and ibutilide belong to? Class III antiarrhythmics (K+ channel blockers)"
"Sotalol is a class III antiarrhythmic that also has class II (β-blocker) activity"
"Are class III antiarrhythmics used to treat supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias? Both :)"
"Class III antiarrhythmics may be used to treat atrial fibrillation (and flutter)"
"Class III antiarrhythmics can restore and maintain normal sinus rhythm in atrial fibrillation and flutter"
"Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic, has many neurologic side effects (e.g. tremor, ataxia, peripheral neuropathy, sleep disturbances)"
"Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic, can act as a(n) hapten, resulting in gray corneal microdeposits"
"Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic, can cause both hyper- or hypo-thyroidism"
"Amiodarone can cause pulmonary fibrosis with progression to restrictive lung disease"
"Amiodarone can cause heart block as a result of its class II antiarrhythmic activity"
"Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic, can induce heart failure, especially with rapid IV administration"
"Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic, can cause hypersensitivity hepatitis"
"Amiodarone may act as a hapten resulting in gray-blue skin discoloration with photodermatitis"
"Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic, is a(n) inhibitor of cytochrome P450 and thus may have many drug interactions"
"What adverse effect is common to sotalol, dofetilide, and ibutilide (class III antiarrhythmics)? Torsades de pointes"
"All type III antiarrhythmics (K+ channel blockers) can widen the QT interval on ECG"
"Amiodarone and sotalol (class III antiarrhythmics) may be used to treat ventricular tachycardia"
"What laboratory function tests should be checked when using amiodarone? Pulmonary (PFTs), Liver (LFTs), and Thyroid (TFTs)::3"
"What adverse effect may amiodarone have on bowel movement? Constipation"
"During the early stages of exercise, cardiac output is maintained by increased heart rate and stroke volume"
"During the late stages of exercise, cardiac output is maintained by increased heart rate only as stroke volume plateaus"
"Which phase of the cardiac cycle (systole or diastole) is preferentially shortened with increased heart rate? Diastole"
"What is the effect of hyperthyroidism on pulse pressure? Increased pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of aortic stiffening on pulse pressure? Increased pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of obstructive sleep apnea on pulse pressure? Increased pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of exercise on pulse pressure? Increased pulse pressure, transiently"
"Decreased pulse pressures are seen in conditions that decrease left ventricular stroke volume"
"What is the effect of aortic stenosis on pulse pressure? Decreased pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of cardiogenic shock on pulse pressure? Decreased pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of cardiac tamponade on pulse pressure? Decreased pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of advanced heart failure on pulse pressure? Decreased pulse pressure"
"What is the effect of β1-blockade on contractility (and SV)? Decreased contractility"
"What is the effect of acidosis on contractility (and SV)? Decreased contractility"
"What is the effect of hypoxia (low O2) and hypercapnia (high CO2) on contractility (and SV)? Decreased"
"Veno-dilators (e.g. nitroglycerin) cause decreased pre-load"
"Vaso-dilators (e.g. hydralazine) cause decreased after-load"
"ACE inhibitors and ARBs decrease both preload and afterload"
"What is the effect of dilated cardiomyopathy on contractility? Decreased (systolic dysfunction)"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may present with a(n) systolic::systolic/diastolic murmur"
"Where is a murmur due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy best heard? Left sternal border"
"What effect does inspiration have on venous return to the right atrium? Increased venous return"
"Inspiration as a bedside maneuver may be used to increase the intensity of right heart sounds"
"The hand grip maneuver is used to increase after-load"
"What effect does the hand grip maneuver have on the intensity of MR, AR, and VSD murmurs? Increased intensity"
"What effect does the hand grip maneuver have on the intensity of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy murmurs? Decreased intensity"
"What effect does the hand grip maneuver have on the \click\\" onset time of MVP murmurs? Later onset of click/murmur\""
"Standing up and the valsalva maneuver are both used to decrease pre-load"
"What effect does standing up or the valsalva maneuver have on the intensity of MR, AR, MS, and AS murmurs? Decreased intensity"
"What effect does standing up or the valsalva maneuver have on the intensity of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy murmurs? Increased intensity"
"What effect does standing up or the valsalva maneuver have on the \click\\" onset time of MVP murmurs? Earlier onset of click/murmur\""
"Rapid squatting is a maneuver that is used to increase preload, afterload, and venous return"
"What effect does the rapid squatting maneuver have on the intensity of aortic stenosis murmurs? Increased intensity"
"What effect does the rapid squatting maneuver have on the intensity of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy murmurs? Decreased intensity"
"What effect does the rapid squatting maneuver have on the \click\\" onset time of MVP murmurs? Later onset of click/murmur\""
"Where is a murmur due to patent ductus arteriosus best heard? Left infraclavicular area"
"The Cushing reaction is a triad of hypertension, bradycardia, and respiratory depression due to increased intracranial pressure"
"What effect does carotid massage have on conduction through the AV node? Slowed conduction"
"Atrial fibrillation is characterized by a chaotic and erratic baseline with no discrete P waves in between irregularly spaced QRS complexes on ECG"
"Atrial fibrillation is characterized by a(n) irregularly, irregular patterned rhythm"
"Atrial fibrillation can lead to thromboembolic events, particularly stroke (brain complication)"
"The most common risk factors for atrial fibrillation include hypertension and coronary artery disease (CAD)"
"Atrial flutter is characterized by a rapid succession of identical, back-to-back atrial depolarization waves"
"Atrial flutter typically has a 4:1 \sawtooth\\" pattern appearance on ECG\""
"What is the definitive treatment for atrial flutter? Catheter ablation"
"Ventricular fibrillation is characterized by a completely erratic rhythm with no identifiable waves on ECG"
"Ventricular fibrillation is a fatal arrhythmia without immediate CPR and defibrillation"
"1st degree AV block is characterized by a PR interval > 200 msec on ECG"
"2nd degree Mobitz type I (Wenckebach)::(aka) AV block is characterized by progressive lengthening of the PR interval until a beat is \dropped\\"\""
"2nd degree Mobitz type I AV block is characterized by a(n) regularly, irregular patterned rhythm on ECG"
"2nd degree Mobitz type II AV block is characterized by dropped beats that are not preceded by a change in length of the PR interval on ECG"
"2nd degree Mobitz type II AV block may progress to 3rd-degree block"
"2nd degree Mobitz type II AV block is often treated with a(n) pacemaker"
"3rd degree AV block is characterized by independent beating of the atria and ventricles (P waves and QRS complexes are not rhythmically associated)"
"3rd degree AV block is usually treated with a(n) pacemaker"
"3rd degree AV block can be caused by Lyme disease"
"What pathology is indicated on the ECG below? Atrial fibrillation"
"What pathology is indicated on the ECG below? Atrial flutter"
"What pathology is indicated on the ECG below? Ventricular fibrillation"
"What pathology is indicated on the ECG below? 1st degree AV block"
"What pathology is indicated on the ECG below? 2nd degree AV block, Mobitz type I (Wenckebach)"
"What pathology is indicated on the ECG below? 2nd degree AV block, Mobitz type II"
"What pathology is indicated on the ECG below? 3rd degree AV block"
"Ventricular septal defect leads to an increased O2 saturation in the RV and pulmonary artery"
"Atrial septal defect leads to an increased O2 saturation in the RA, RV and pulmonary artery"
"One sign of hyperlipidemia is xanthomas, which are plaques or nodules composed of lipid-laden histiocytes in skin"
"When a xanthoma affects the eyelids, it is known as xanthelasma"
"One sign of hyperlipidemia is tendinous xanthomas, which are plaques or nodules composed of lipid-laden histiocytes in tendon (especially Achilles)"
"One sign of hyperlipidemia is corneal arcus, which are lipid deposits in the cornea"
"Corneal arcus is common in the elderly (arcus senilis), but appears earlier in life in patients with hypercholesterolemia"
"Diagnosis of a current or previous myocardial infarction may be aided by the presence of pathologic Q waves on ECG"
"There is an increased risk for posteromedial papillary muscle rupture (post-MI) due to its single blood supply from the posterior descending artery"
"Obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a subset of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in which asymmetric septal hypertrophy interferes with the outflow of blood from the left ventricle"
"Shock is inadequate organ perfusion and delivery of nutrients necessary for normal tissue and cellular function"
"Hypovolemic shock may be caused by hemorrhage, dehydration, and burns"
"Hypovolemic shock is characterized by skin that is cold and clammy"
"How do PCWP and preload change during hypovolemic shock? Severely decreased"
"How does cardiac output change during hypovolemic shock? Decreased"
"How do SVR and afterload change during hypovolemic shock? Increased"
"What is the treatment for hypovolemic shock? IV fluids"
"Cardiogenic shock may be caused by acute MI, HF, valvular dysfunction, and arrhythmia (pump failure)"
"Obstructive shock may be caused by cardiac tamponade and pulmonary embolism"
"Cardiogenic and obstructive shock are characterized by skin that is cold and clammy"
"How do PCWP and preload change during cardiogenic and obstructive shock? Increased or decreased"
"How does cardiac output change during cardiogenic and obstructive shock? Severely decreased"
"How do SVR and afterload change during cardiogenic and obstructive shock? Increased"
"What is the main treatment for cardiogenic shock? IV Inotropes"
"What is the treatment for obstructive shock? Relieve obstruction"
"Distributive shock may be caused by sepsis, anaphylaxis, or CNS injury (excessive vasodilation)"
"Distributive shock is characterized by skin that is warm and dry"
"How do PCWP and preload change during distributive shock? Decreased"
"How does cardiac output change during distributive shock due to sepsis and anaphylaxis? Increased"
"How does cardiac output change during distributive shock due to CNS injury? Decreased"
"How do SVR and afterload change during distributive shock? Severely decreased"
"What is the treatment for distributive shock? IV fluids, pressors::2"
"What kidney complication may be associated with bacterial endocarditis? Glomerulonephritis"
"Kussmaul sign is increased jugular venous pressure on inspiration"
"The Kussmaul sign (increased JVP on inspiration) occurs due to failure of negative intrathoracic pressure to be transmitted to the heart during inspiration"
"Failure of negative intrathoracic pressure to be transmitted to the heart results in impaired filling of the right ventricle, with a consequent back-up of blood into the vena cava::one step past the atria (Kussmaul sign)"
"Kussmaul sign (increased JVP on inspiration) may be seen with constrictive pericarditis and restrictive cardiomyopathies"
"Kussmaul sign (increased JVP on inspiration) may be seen with right::left or right atrial or ventricular tumors"
"Tertiary syphilis disrupts the vasa vasorum of the aorta with consequent atrophy of the vessel wall and dilatation of the aorta and valve ring"
"Acute pericarditis is defined as inflammation of the pericardium"
"Acute pericarditis commonly presents with sharp pain that is aggravated by inspiration and relieved by sitting up and leaning forward"
"Acute pericarditis is often complicated by pericardial effusion"
"ECG changes associated with acute pericarditis include widespread, diffuse ST segment elevation and/or PR depression"
"What is the most common cause of acute pericarditis? Idiopathic (presumed viral)"
"Cardiac tamponade is defined as compression of the heart by fluid"
"What is the effect of cardiac tamponade on cardiac output? Decreased CO"
"What is the effect of cardiac tamponade on heart rate? Increased HR"
"Cardiac tamponade leads to equilibration of diastolic pressures in all 4 chambers"
"Cardiac tamponade may present with Beck's triad of hypotension, distended neck veins, and distant heart sounds"
"One ECG change associated with cardiac tamponade is a(n) low-voltage QRS complex"
"One ECG change associated with cardiac tamponade is electrical alternans, which occurs due to \swinging\\" movement of the heart in a large effusion\""
"Cardiac tamponade may be associated with pulsus paradoxus, which is a(n) decrease in amplitude of systolic BP > 10 mmHG during inspiration"
"What type of drug are class IV antiarrhythmics? Non-dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics block activated and inactivated L-type calcium channels"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics (non-dihydropyridine CCBs) are specific for the L-type calcium channel receptors in the heart::overall location in the body"
"What drug class do diltiazem and verapamil belong to? Class IV antiarrhythmics (non-dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers)"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics treat arrhythmias by directly blocking Ca2+ current in the SA and AV nodes"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics decrease pacemaker activity by decreasing the slope of phase 0 of the nodal action potential"
"What is the effect of class IV antiarrhythmics (non-dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers) on effective refractory period? Increased ERP"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics (non-dihydropyridine CCBs) decrease conduction velocity through the AV node"
"Are class IV antiarrhythmics used to treat supraventricular or ventricular arrhythmias? Supraventricular"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics may prolong the PR interval on ECG"
"One possible adverse effect of class IV antiarrhythmics is AV block due to decreased conduction through the AV node"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics are useful in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (and flutter)"
"Class IV antiarrhythmics are useful in preventing rapid ventricular response (RVR) in atrial fibrillation and flutter (\rate control\\")\""
"Digoxin is a cardiac glycoside that has antiarrhythmic properties"
"Digoxin exerts parasympathomimetic effects via direct stimulation of the vagus nerve, causing AV nodal inhibition"
"Digoxin is useful in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (and flutter)"
"Digoxin is useful in preventing rapid ventricular response (RVR) in atrial fibrillation and flutter (\rate control\\")\""
"Magnesium is an ion that may be used as an antiarrhythmic to treat torsades de pointes"
"Magnesium may be used as an antiarrhythmic to treat digoxin toxicity"
"What changes in potassium levels (hyper- or hypokalemia) can induce arrhythmias? Both hyper- and hypokalemia :)"
"Hyper-kalemia induced arrhythmias may present on ECG with peaked T waves and a(n) shortened QT interval"
"Hypo-kalemia induced arrhythmias may present on ECG with U waves at the end of the T wave"
"Adenosine is a purine nucleoside with antiarrhythmic properties"
"Adenosine activates inhibitory A1 receptors on the myocardium of the SA and AV nodes"
"Activation of A1 receptors in the myocardium by adenosine increases outward K+ current"
"Activation of A1 receptors in the myocardium by adenosine decreases inward Ca2+ current"
"Adenosine decreases conduction velocity through the AV node"
"What is the effect of adenosine on effective refractory period? Increased ERP"
"Adenosine may cause transient high grade heart block due to direct AV node inhibition"
"Adenosine may be used as a very short acting antiarrhythmic"
"Adenosine is a first line agent for acute treatment of supraventricular arrhythmias"
"Adenosine causes coronary dilation via its action on A2 receptors"
"One adverse effect associated with adenosine is cutaneous flushing"
"Adverse effects associated with adenosine include chest pain and a sense of impending doom"
"What effect may adenosine have on blood pressure? Decreased (hypotension)"
"Adenosine is an antiarrhythmic that is less effective in the presence of theophylline and caffeine (methylxanthines)"
"What pulmonary side effect is associated with adenosine? Bronchospasm"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is commonly due to β-myosin heavy chain or myosin-binding protein C mutations"
"The heart is maximally softened 7 to 10 days post-MI"
"The embryonic truncus arteriosus gives rise to the ascending aorta and pulmonary trunk"
"The embryonic bulbus cordis gives rise to the smooth parts (outflow tracks) of the left and right ventricles"
"The embryonic primitive atria gives rise to the trabeculated parts of the left and right atria"
"The embryonic primitive ventricle gives rise to the trabeculated parts of the left and right ventricles"
"The embryonic primitive pulmonary vein gives rise to the smooth part of the left atrium"
"The embryonic right horn of sinus venosus gives rise to the smooth part of the right atrium"
"The embryonic left horn of sinus venosus gives rise to the coronary sinus"
"The embryonic right common cardinal vein and right anterior cardinal vein give rise to the superior vena cava"
"The embryonic endocardial cushion gives rise to the atrial septum and membranous interventricular septum"
"The embryonic endocardial cushion gives rise to the AV and semilunar valves"
"The heart is the first functional organ to develop in vertebrate embryos"
"The heart beats spontaneously by week 4 of embryonic development"
"The primary heart tube loops to establish left-right polarity beginning in week 4 of gestation"
"A defect in left-right dynein during heart morphogenesis can result in dextrocardia"
"In the first step of atrial partitioning, the septum primum grows toward the endocardial cushions, forming a narrow ostium primum"
"In the second step of atrial partitioning, the ostium secundum forms in place of the ostium primum"
"In the third step of atrial partitioning, the sinus venosus is \pulled\\" into the developing right atrium"
"In the fourth step of atrial partitioning, the septum secundum expands and covers most of the foramen secundum, leaving the residual foramen ovale"
"The remaining portion of the septum primum, following foramen ovale formation, forms the valve of foramen ovale"
"Shortly after birth, the septum secundum and septum primum fuse to form the atrial septum"
"The foramen ovale usually closes shortly after birth because of increased left atrial pressure"
"Failure of the septum primum and septum secundum to fuse after birth results in a(n) patent foramen ovale"
"Patent foramen ovale can lead to paradoxical emboli, which are venous thromboemboli that enter systemic arterial circulation"
"In the first step of ventricular partitioning, the muscular interventricular septum develops and forms the interventricular foramen"
"In the second step of ventricular partitioning, the aorticopulmonary septum rotates and fuses with the muscular interventricular septum to form the membranous interventricular septum, resulting in closure of the interventricular foramen"
"In the third step of ventricular partitioning, growth of endocardial cushions separates atria from ventricles"
"Ventricular septal defects usually occur in the membranous portion of the interventricular septum"
"The mitral and tricuspid valves are derived from the fused endocardial cushions of the common AV canal"
"Outflow tracts from the heart are formed by migrations of neural crest and endocardial cells, which spiral and fuse to form the aorticopulmonary::long septum"
"What is the embryonic origin of endocardial cushion cells? Neural crest cells and lateral plate mesoderm::2"
"What is the embryonic origin of the aorticopulmonary septum? Neural crest cells"
"Blood in the umbilical vein has a Po2 of approximately 30 mmHg"
"Blood in the umbilical vein has a O2 saturation of approximately 80%"
"Compared to the umbilical vein, the umbilical arteries have low O2 saturation"
"Oxygenated blood from the placenta enters the fetal circulation via the umbilical vein"
"From the umbilical vein, blood is conducted into the IVC via the ductus venosus, which bypasses hepatic circulation"
"Mixed blood in the fetal IVC enters the right atrium"
"Most of the highly oxygenated blood reaching the heart via the fetal IVC is directed from the RA to the LA via the foramen ovale and pumped into the aorta to supply the head and body"
"Most of the deoxygenated blood from the fetal SVC is conducted to the descending aorta via the ductus arteriosus, which bypasses the lungs"
"Deoxygenated blood is returned to the placenta via the umbilical arteries"
"Once the foramen ovale has closed, it is re-named the fossa ovalis"
"Closure of the ductus arteriosus occurs in response to increased O2 and decreased PGE (from respiration and placental separation, respectively)"
"The remnant of the ductus arteriosus is the ligamentum arteriosum, which connects the aorta and pulmonary artery"
"The remnant of the ductus venosus is the ligamentum venosum"
"The remnant of the umbilical arteries is the medial umbilical ligaments"
"The remnant of the umbilical vein is the ligamentum teres hepatis, which is contained in the falciform ligament"
"The SA node is commonly supplied by the right coronary artery while the AV node is supplied by the Posterior Descending Artery"
"The posterior descending artery (PDA) most commonly arises from the right coronary artery (85%)"
"When the posterior descending artery (PDA) arises from the right coronary artery, it is referred to as right-dominant circulation (85%)"
"When the posterior descending artery (PDA) arises from the left circumflex artery, it is referred to as left-dominant circulation (8%)"
"When the posterior descending artery (PDA) arises from both the right coronary artery and left circumflex artery, it is referred to as codominant circulation (7%)"
"Coronary artery occlusion most commonly occurs in the left anterior descending artery"
"Coronary blood flow peaks in early diastole::systolic/diastolic"
"The most posterior chamber of the heart is the left atrium"
"Enlargement of the heart can cause dysphagia due to compression of the esophagus"
"Enlargement of the heart can cause hoarseness due to compression of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve"
"The outermost layer of the pericardium is the fibrous pericardium"
"The middle layer of the pericardium is the parietal layer of serous pericardium"
"The inner layer of the pericardium is the visceral layer of serous pericardium"
"The pericardial cavity lies between parietal and visceral layers of serous pericardium"
"Which artery supplies the posterior third of the interventricular septum? Posterior descending artery (PDA)"
"Which artery supplies the anterior two-thirds of the interventricular septum? Left anterior descending artery (LAD)"
"Which arteries supply the anterolateral papillary muscle? LCX, LAD::2"
"Only L-amino acids are found in proteins"
"Which amino acids are characterized by branched side chains? Valine, Leucine, Isoleucine::3"
"Which amino acids are the precursors to catecholamines and melanin? Tyrosine, Phenylalanine::2"
"Which amino acid is the precursor to serotonin and niacin? Tryptophan"
"The amino acids aspartate and glutamate are negatively charged at body pH (acidic)"
"The amino acids lysine and arginine are positively charged at body pH (basic)"
"What is the charge of the amino acid histidine at body pH? No charge"
"Which amino acids are the target of protein kinase A and protein kinase C? Serine, Threonine::2"
"Which amino acids have sulfur groups? Cysteine, Methionine::2"
"Which amino acids are required during periods of growth? Arginine, Histidine::2"
"What are the 9 (10*) essential amino acids? MethionineThreonineHistidine PhenylalanineLysineArginine ** during times of growth IsoleucineLeucineTryptophanValine"
"Which amino acids are ketogenic? Leucine, Lysine::2"
"Are the essential amino acids methionine, valine, and histidine ketogenic or glucogenic? Glucogenic"
"Are the amino acids phenylalanine, isoleucine, threonine, tryptophan, and tyrosine ketogenic or glucogenic? Both :)"
"The amino acid arginine is essential during periods of positive nitrogen balance"
"If ΔG for a reaction is less than zero, the reaction happens spontaneously"
"If ΔG for a reaction is greater than zero, energy must be added for the reaction to occur"
"Enzymes exert their effects by decreasing the energy of activation"
"The rate of a reaction depends on the concentration of both the enzyme and the substrate"
"The Michaelis-Mentin constant, Km is inversely proportional to the affinity of the enzyme for its substrate"
"The Vmax of a reaction is directly proportional to enzyme concentration"
"In first order kinetics, the rate of reaction is directly proportional to the substrate (drug) concentration"
"In zero order kinetics, the rate of reaction is constant"
"If the amount of enzymes doubles, the Vmax doubles, while Km remains constant"
"The X-intercept of a lineweaver-burke plot represents -1/Km"
"The Y-intercept of a lineweaver-burke plot represents 1/Vmax"
"If the Y-intercept increases on a lineweaver-burke plot, the Vmax has decreased"
"When using a(n) reversible competitive inhibitor, the Km changes, while the Vmax remains the same"
"When using either noncompetitive or suicide-competitive inhibitors, the Vmax changes, while the Km remains the same"
"When using an irreversible competitive inhibitor, the Vmax changes, while the Km remains the same"
"Do reversible competitive inhibitors resemble the substrate? Yes"
"Do irreversible competitive inhibitors resemble the substrate? Yes"
"Do noncompetitive inhibitors resemble the substrate? No"
"Can reversible competitive inhibitors be overcome by increasing the substrate concentration, [S]? Yes"
"Can irreversible competitive inhibitors be overcome by increasing the substrate concentration, [S]? No"
"Can noncompetitive inhibitors be overcome by increasing the substrate concentration, [S]? No"
"Do reversible competitive inhibitors bind to the active site of the enzyme? Yes"
"Do irreversible competitive inhibitors bind to the active site of the enzyme? Yes"
"Do noncompetitive inhibitors bind to the active site of the enzyme? No"
"While most enzymatic reactions follow a hyperbolic curve (Michaelis-Menten kinetics), allosteric kinetics follow a(n) sigmoidal curve"
"Methyl xanthines (e.g. caffeine) are inhibitors of the enzyme phosphodiesterase (PDE), which normally degrades cAMP into 5' AMP"
"Protein kinase G activates the enzyme phosphatase, which dephosphorylates myosin light chain causing smooth muscle relaxation"
"When insulin binds its receptor, the receptor dimerizes and is activated via tyrosine kinase activity"
"Autophosphorylation of the insulin receptor allows binding of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS-1)"
"Following binding of insulin receptor substrate 1 to the insulin receptor, SH2-domain proteins bind to IRS-1"
"Downstream effects of glucagon cause protein phosphorylation::phosphorylation/dephosphorylation"
"Downstream effects of insulin cause protein dephosphorylation::phosphorylation/dephosphorylation"
"Phosphorylation of glycogen phosphorylase causes enzyme activation::activation/inactivation"
"Phosphorylation of glycogen synthase causes enzyme inactivation::activation/inactivation"
"Dephosphorylation of glycogen phosphorylase causes enzyme inactivation::activation/inactivation"
"Dephosphorylation of glycogen synthase causes enzyme activation::activation/inactivation"
"Digoxin is derived from the foxglove plant"
"Cardiac glycosides (e.g. digoxin) exert their effects via inhibition of the Na+-K+ ATPase pump"
"Cardiac glycosides lead to increased levels of intracellular Na+"
"Cardiac glycosides (e.g. digoxin) lead to increased levels of intracellular Ca2+"
"Cardiac glycosides (e.g. digoxin) cause increased cardiac contractility due to increased sarcoplasmic Ca2+ stores"
"Digoxin is used for symptomatic relief of chronic systolic heart failure"
"Does digoxin reduce mortality in patients with chronic heart failure? No; only used for symptomatic relief"
"One adverse effect associated with digoxin is hyperkalemia, which is an indicator of poor prognosis"
"Digitalis toxicity may induce arrhythmias, such as premature ventricular contractions"
"Chronic digoxin use leads to Peaked T wave and QT interval shortening (due to hyperkalemia), and ST depression with a \scooped\\" appearance on ECG\""
"One adverse effect associated with digoxin is bradycardia::HR"
"One adverse effect associated with digoxin is heart block due to parasympathetic activity at AV node"
"Digoxin is contraindicated in patients with significant SA or AV block"
"Cholinergic stimulation due to digoxin may cause GI side effects"
"Digitalis toxicity may cause blurry yellow vision, known as xanthopsia"
"One factor that predisposes to digoxin toxicity is hypokalemia, which increases binding of digoxin to Na+-K+ ATPase"
"One factor that predisposes to digoxin toxicity is renal insufficiency, which decreases drug excretion"
"Renal clearance of digoxin is decreased with antiarrhythmic drugs such as verapamil, amiodarone, and quinidine"
"One possible treatment for digoxin toxicity is anti-digoxin Fab fragments"
"Milrinone and inamrinone are PDE-3 inhibitors used in the treatment of acute heart failure"
"What effect does milrinone have on cardiac contractility? Increased contractility"
"Milrinone causes arteriolar dilation and thus decreased afterload"
"Nesiritide is a synthetic form of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) used in the treatment of acute heart failure"
"Nesiritide causes arteriolar and venous dilation and thus decreased afterload and preload"
"Nesiritide, a(n) BNP analog, causes Na+ loss through diuresis"
"Calcium channel blockers (CCBs) target voltage-gated L-type calcium channels"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs primarily block L-type calcium channels in smooth muscle"
"Non-dihydropyridine CCBs primarily block L-type calcium channels in cardiac muscle"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs cause vaso-dilation"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs have a(n) -dipine suffix"
"Verapamil and diltiazem are both examples of non-dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers"
"Diltiazem has some vaso-dilatory activity"
"Non-dihydropyridine CCBs decrease cardiac contractility and cardiac output"
"Inhibition of the SA node by non-dihydropyridine CCBs can cause bradycardia"
"Ca2+ channel blockers are useful for treating hypertension"
"Nifedipine is a dihydropyridine CCB that is used to treat hypertension during pregnancy"
"Ca2+ channel blockers may be used to treat stable angina if β-blockers/nitrates have not worked or are contraindicated"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs are useful for treating angina due to their ability to cause coronary vaso-dilation"
"What effect do dihydropyridine CCBs have on afterload? Decreased afterload (via peripheral vasodilation)"
"Non-dihydropyridine CCBs are useful for treating angina due to their ability to decrease myocardial oxygen demand"
"Ca2+ channel blockers are a first-line treatment for Prinzmetal angina, due to their ability to prevent vasoconstriction in the coronary vasculature"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs may be used to treat Raynaud's phenomenon, which is an exaggerated vascular response to cold temperature or emotional stress"
"Nimodipine is a Ca2+ channel blocker that is used to prevent cerebral vasospasm following a(n) subarachnoid hemorrhage"
"Calcium channel blockers, such as verapamil, may be used for migraine prophylaxis"
"Nonspecific adverse effects of dihydropyridine CCBs include headache, dizziness, and flushing"
"One adverse effect associated with dihydropyridine CCBs is peripheral edema, secondary to dilation of pre-capillary vessels"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs may cause reflex tachycardia::HR"
"Which Ca2+ channel blocker is contraindicated in patients with unstable angina or MI due to its ability to exacerbate myocardial ischemia? Nifedipine"
"What major GI side effect is associated with verapamil? Constipation"
"One adverse effect associated with Ca2+ channel blockers (e.g. verapamil) is gingival hyperplasia"
"Non-dihydropyridine CCBs are relatively contraindicated in patients with heart block or heart failure due to their ability to cause cardiac depression"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs can worsen heart failure due to increased sympathetic activity induced by baroreceptor reflex activation"
"Which Ca2+ channel blockers have the most potent effects on vascular smooth muscle? Amlodipine, Nifedipine::2"
"Which Ca2+ channel blocker has the most potent effects on cardiac muscle? Verapamil"
"What four drug classes are used in the treatment of primary hypertension? 1. Thiazide diuretics 2. ACE inhibitors 3. Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) 4. Dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers"
"Patients with BP > 20/10 mmHg above goal should use two antihypertensives"
"Hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, is a first line agent for treating primary hypertension"
"Black and elderly patients respond well to hydrochlorothiazide and long-acting dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel blockers for treatment of primary hypertension"
"ACE inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers are first line treatment for hypertension in patients with heart failure, MI, and/or diabetes"
"Hypertensive emergency occurs when systolic BP >180 or diastolic BP >120 with end-organ damage"
"IV β1 antagonists, such as esmolol and metoprolol, can be used for hypertensive emergency"
"Labetalol, an α- and β-antagonist, can be used for hypertensive emergency"
"Many agents used in hypertensive emergencies are potent vaso-dilators"
"Potent vasodilation (e.g. following hypertensive therapy) may cause hypotension followed by reflex tachycardia and increased renin levels"
"Vasodilation (e.g. following hypertensive therapy) reduces after-load"
"IV Ca2+ channel blockers such as nicardipine and clevidipine may be used in hypertensive emergency"
"IV Ca2+ channel blockers, such as nicardipine and clevidipine, cause arteriolar dilation, which is useful for the treatment of hypertensive emergency"
"Hydralazine is safe to use in pregnant women experiencing hypertensive emergency"
"Hydralazine primarily dilates arterioles, leading to a decreased after-load"
"Hydralazine can cause hypotension, which may induce a reflex tachycardia that can worsen angina"
"Hydralazine is contraindicated in patients with angina and CAD"
"Hydralazine is often co-administered with a(n) β-blocker to minimize the reflexive sympathetic activation and tachycardia"
"Hydralazine is often combined with a(n) organic nitrate to treat heart failure due to LV systolic dysfunction"
"Hydralazine combined with a(n) nitrate provides a(n) mortality benefit for some patients with heart failure"
"Hydralazine can rarely cause drug-induced lupus, which may manifest as myalgias, arthralgias, and joint swelling"
"Hydralazine exerts its effects by increasing levels of cGMP, causing smooth muscle relaxation"
"Nitroprusside causes vasodilation equally at the arteries and veins via nitric oxide, which is useful during the treatment of hypertensive emergency"
"Nitroprusside promotes smooth muscle relaxation by increasing cGMP (via direct release of NO)"
"Does nitroprusside cause arteriolar or venous dilation? Both :)"
"Nitroprusside is associated with cyanide poisoning, which may present as - lactic acidosis - seizures - altered mental status"
"Fenoldopam is a(n) D1 receptor agonist that may be used in the treatment of hypertensive emergency to prevent kidney damage"
"Fenoldopam exerts its effects by acting on the D1 receptor (A Gs receptor), thus increasing levels of cAMP, causing vasodilation in most arterial beds"
"What effect does fenoldopam have on renal arteries? Dilation::dilation/constriction"
"Fenoldopam stimulation of dopamine receptors in the kidneys causes increased excretion of Na+ and water"
"In addition to its use during hypertensive emergency, fenoldopam is also used postoperatively as an antihypertensive"
"What adverse effects are associated with fenoldopam? Hypotension, Reflex Tachycardia::2"
"Which organ is responsible for the import and export of lipoproteins? Liver"
"The lumen of the small intestine is the site of free fatty acid, bile acid, and cholesterol absorption"
"After being absorbed from the GI tract, free cholesterol is packaged into a(n) chylomicron as cholesterol ester"
"The main component of chylomicrons is triglycerides"
"Which apolipoproteins do chylomicrons express on their surface? Apolipoproteins A-I, B-48, C-II, and E::4"
"Chylomicrons deliver triglycerides from the intestine to peripheral tissues"
"Triglycerides in chylomicrons are hydrolyzed by the enzyme lipoprotein lipase (LPL), releasing free fatty acids"
"Free fatty acids (from triglycerides) can be used for energy by the heart and skeletal muscle"
"Free fatty acids can be converted back to triglycerides and stored in adipose tissue"
"Once depleted of their triglycerides, chylomicron remnants return to the liver"
"The remnant receptor on the liver binds to ApoE of the chylomicron remnant, causing subsequent endocytosis"
"Hepatocytes synthesize cholesterol using the rate-limiting enzyme HMG CoA reductase"
"The first intermediate in cholesterol synthesis is mevalonate (from HMG CoA)"
"Cholesterol from the liver may be repackaged into the interior of VLDLs"
"The main component of VLDL is triglycerides (60%)"
"Apolipoprotein B-100 is found on the lipoproteins LDL, IDL, and VLDL"
"VLDLs deliver triglycerides directly from the liver to peripheral tissues"
"Depletion of triglycerides from VLDLs produces IDLs, which may undergo further removal of triglycerides via the enzyme hepatic TG lipase, forming LDL"
"The main component of LDL is a core of cholesterol esters"
"LDLs are the main source of cholesterol delivery to peripheral tissues in the body"
"The LDL receptor on the liver binds to ApoB-100 of the LDL particle, causing subsequent endocytosis"
"Nascent HDL is secreted by the liver and intestine"
"Lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) converts free cholesterol into cholesterol esters for transport by HDL"
"Mature HDL particles contain LCAT-generated cholesterol esters"
"HDL transfers cholesterol esters to LDLs, IDLs, and VLDLs via cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) to be transported back to the liver"
"HDL delivers cholesterol esters directly to the liver via scavenger receptor B-1 receptors"
"Statins (e.g. simvastatin, atorvastatin, rosuvastatin) exert their effects by inhibiting the enzyme HMG CoA reductase, thus decreasing cholesterol production"
"Statins indirectly cause increased LDL receptor expression on hepatocytes"
"Statins significantly reduce LDL levels (30-60% reductions)"
"What effect do statins have on triglyceride levels? Mild decrease"
"What effect do statins have on HDL levels? Mild increase"
"The first line treatment for hypercholesterolemia (LDL) is with lifestyle modification and statins"
"Statins are the most effective lipid lowering medications for preventing future cardiovascular events"
"Statins are the only lipid-lowering drugs consistently proven to reduce risk of atherosclerotic heart disease"
"Statin therapy may be used to reduce the risk of cardiovascular events and mortality in high-risk diabetics"
"Statins reduce risk of future vascular events in patients with a history of TIA or stroke"
"Statins may be teratogenic, therefore avoid during the first trimester of pregnancy"
"The most common side effect of statins is myopathy, which occurs weeks to months after starting therapy"
"Statins can cause elevations in serum CK, which may be indicative of myopathy"
"Statins may cause mild hepato-toxicity, and thus mild elevations in liver function tests"
"All statins, except for pravastatin, are metabolized by cytochrome p450"
"What drug class do cholestyramine, colestipol, and colesevelam belong do? Bile acid resins"
"Bile acids, derived from cholesterol, are released into the intestinal lumen"
"Normally, 95% of bile acids in the ileum are recycled back to the liver through enterohepatic circulation"
"Bile acid resins (e.g. cholestyramine) bind bile acids in the intestinal lumen, preventing absorption and recycling to the liver"
"Bile acid resins (e.g. cholestyramine) interrupt bile acid recycling and promote synthesis of new bile acids, depleting liver cholesterol stores"
"Bile acid resins (e.g. cholestyramine) indirectly increase HMG CoA reductase activity and thus increase cholesterol synthesis by the liver"
"Bile acid resins indirectly cause increased LDL receptor expression"
"What effect do bile acid resins have on LDL levels? Moderately decreased"
"What effect do bile acid resins have on HDL levels? Slightly increased"
"Bile acid resins are used in patients with primary hypercholesterolemia, usually in conjunction with statins"
"What effect do bile acid resins have on serum triglycerides levels? Slightly increased"
"Bile acid resins increase the cholesterol content of bile acids and thus may cause cholesterol gallstones"
"Bile acid resins frequently cause GI side effects, such as constipation and bloating"
"Bile acid resins can lead to steatorrhea, which may impair the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, K)"
"Bile acid resins are lipid-lowering agents that may decrease the absorption of statins, thus these drugs should be given 4 hours apart"
"Ezetimibe is a lipid-lowering agent that blocks absorption of cholesterol at the small intestinal brush border"
"Ezetimibe restricts the liver's access to exogenous cholesterol"
"Ezetimibe indirectly increases HMG CoA reductase activity and thus increases cholesterol synthesis by the liver"
"Ezetimibe indirectly causes increased LDL receptor expression"
"What effect does ezetimibe have on LDL levels? Moderately decreased"
"What GI side effect is associated with ezetimibe? Diarrhea/steatorrhea::2"
"Ezetimibe may cause increased liver function tests"
"Evolocumab and alirocumab are lipid-lowering agents that inhibit PCSK9::what enzyme?"
"PCSK9 is a protease produced by the liver that leads to degradation of hepatocyte LDL receptors"
"Evolocumab binds PCSK9 and prevents degradation of hepatic LDL receptors"
"What drug class do gemfibrozil and fenofibrate belong to? Fibrates"
"Fibrates upregulate the enzyme lipoprotein lipase (LPL) by activating PPAR-α"
"Fibrates significantly decrease serum triglycerides by increasing hydrolysis of VLDLs and chylomicrons"
"One way Fibrates decrease serum triglycerides is by decreasing hepatic VLDL secretion"
"Fibrates lead to mild decreases in serum LDL by reducing VLDL"
"What effect do fibrates have on HDL levels? Mildly increased HDL"
"Fibrates may cause myopathy as an adverse effect, especially when combined with statins"
"Fibrates increase risk of cholesterol gallstones and thus should be used with caution in patients with biliary tract disease"
"Niacin (B3) is the most effective drug for increasing serum HDL"
"Fibrates are the most effective drugs for decreasing serum triglycerides"
"Niacin (Vitamin B3) mildly decreases serum triglycerides by decreasing hepatic VLDL secretion"
"Niacin leads to moderately decreased serum LDL by reducing VLDL synthesis"
"A common adverse effect associated with niacin is cutaneous flushing and warmth due to increased prostaglandin activity"
"Flushing and warmth, secondary to niacin use, may be prevented with NSAIDs"
"What effect may niacin have on blood glucose levels? Increased (Hyperglycemia)"
"Niacin may cause hyperuricemia as an adverse effect, which can precipitate gout"
"Niacin can cause elevated liver function tests with severe hepato-toxicity"
"Fish oil, a supplement high in omega-3 fatty acids, may be used to lower serum triglyceride levels"
"Organic nitrates are metabolized and release nitric oxide"
"Nitric oxide increases levels of cGMP in vascular smooth muscle cells"
"Increased levels of cGMP cause myosin light chain dephosphorylation, preventing its interaction with actin"
"Nitrates primarily cause venous dilation, causing decreased pre-load"
"Nitrates may provide symptomatic relief of chronic, stable angina"
"Nitrates reduce myocardial oxygen requirements"
"Sublingual administration of nitroglycerine avoids first pass metabolism, which is useful for immediate relief of angina"
"Oral nitrate preparations have a longer duration of action than sublingual"
"What drug class do isosorbide mononitrate/dinitrate and nitroglycerin belong to? Nitrates"
"Oral nitrate preparations require large dosing due to first pass metabolism"
"Nitrates may be used to treat Prinzmetal angina, which is characterized by vasospasm"
"Nitrates are useful in treatment of acute coronary syndromes"
"Nitrates should be avoided in right-sided myocardial infarction"
"IV nitroglycerine can be used in the treatment of hypertensive emergency"
"Nitroglycerine may be used as an acute treatment for pulmonary edema"
"Adverse effects associated with nitrates include orthostatic hypotension and syncope due to pooling of blood in veins"
"Nitrate-induced hypotension may cause reflex tachycardia"
"Nitrates are often combined with β-blockers to help prevent reflex sympathetic activation"
"What calcium channel blocker may be combined with nitrates, producing similar effects to β-blockers? Verapamil"
"Nitrates may cause throbbing headaches and cutaneous flushing as possible side effects"
"What hematological complication is associated with nitrates? Methemoglobinemia"
"Patients on nitrates have a nitrate-free interval everyday to prevent tolerance"
"Industrial workers may develop \Monday disease\\" due to excessive nitrate exposure"
"Patients on PDE-5 inhibitors should avoid nitrate therapy for 24 hours"
"Nitrates are contraindicated in patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy"
"Ranolazine is a drug used to treat angina refractory to other medical therapies"
"What effect does ranolazine have on heart rate and blood pressure? No effect"
"Ranolazine inhibits the late phase of Na+ current, thereby reducing diastolic wall tension and O2 consumption"
"Ranolazine may cause QT prolongation on ECG"
"Adverse effects of ranolazine include dizziness, headache, and nausea"
"What GI side effect may be caused by ranolazine? Constipation"
"Pindolol and acebutolol are both partial β-agonists that are contraindicated in angina"
"What is the effect of nitrates alone on heart rate? Increased (reflex response)"
"What is the effect of β-blockers alone on heart rate? Decreased"
"What is the effect of nitrates and β-blockers on heart rate? No effect or decreased"
"What is the effect of nitrates alone on ejection time? Decreased"
"What is the effect of β-blockers alone on ejection time? Increased"
"What is the effect of nitrates and β-blockers on ejection time? Little/no effect"
"What is the effect of nitrates alone on myocardial O2 consumption? Decreased"
"What is the effect of β-blockers alone on myocardial O2 consumption? Mildly decreased"
"What is the effect of nitrates and β-blockers on myocardial O2 consumption? Very decreased"
"Which aneurysm, true ventricular aneurysm or pseudo-aneurysm, is more likely to rupture? Pseudo-aneurysm"
"Exercise may increase the expression of the GLUT-4 receptor in muscle tissue, only"
"The large airways of the conducting zone of the lung consists of the nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, and bronchi"
"The small airways of the conducting zone of the lung consist of bronchioles that further divide into terminal bronchioles"
"The conducting zone of the lung is responsible for warming, humidifying, and filtering the air"
"The volume of the conducting zone of the lung comprises the \anatomic dead space\\"\""
"Cartilage (NOT Cilia) and goblet cells extend to the end of the bronchi of the conducting zone"
"The cilia lining the epithelium of the respiratory tract help clear mucus and debris from the lungs via the mucociliary escalator"
"Airway smooth muscle cells extend to the terminal bronchioles of the conducting zone (sparse beyond this point)"
"The smooth muscle of the conducting airways of the lung relaxes in response to sympathetic activation of the β2::typenumber adrenergic receptors"
"The smooth muscle of the conducting airways of the lung constrict in response to parasympathetic activation of muscarinic::specific receptors"
"What is the effect of sympathetic innervation on the smooth muscle of the conducting airways of the lung? Relaxation"
"The respiratory zone of the lung consists of the respiratory bronchioles, alveolar ducts, and alveolar sacs"
"Does the respiratory zone of the lung participate in gas exchange? Yes"
"Which part of the respiratory zone still contains some smooth muscle? Respiratory bronchioles"
"Where in the respiratory tract do cilia terminate? Respiratory bronchioles"
"Do the alveolar ducts and/or sacs have cilia? No"
"The alveolar walls are lined with epithelial cells called type I and type II pneumocytes"
"Type II pneumocytes are responsible for synthesis of pulmonary surfactant"
"Type II pneumocytes have regenerative capacity for both type I and type II pneumocytes"
"The alveoli contain phagocytic cells called alveolar macrophages (dust cells), which clear debris and participate in the immune response"
"Pulmonary blood flow is equal to the cardiac output of the right heart"
"When a person is standing, pulmonary blood flow is lowest at the apex (top) of the lungs"
"When a person is standing, pulmonary blood flow is highest at the base (bottom) of the lungs"
"The volume that moves into the lung with each quiet inspiration is the tidal volume"
"What is the typical normal value for tidal volume (mL)? 500 mL"
"The additional volume that can be inspired above tidal volume is the inspiratory reserve volume"
"The additional volume that can be expired below tidal volume is the expiratory reserve volume"
"The volume that remains in the lungs after maximal forced expiration is the residual volume"
"Which lung volume cannot be measured on spirometry? Residual volume"
"The sum of the tidal volume plus the inspiratory reserve volume is known as inspiratory capacity"
"The sum of the residual volume plus the expiratory reserve volume is known as functional residual capacity"
"The volume of gas remaining in the lungs after normal expiration is the functional residual capacity"
"The sum of the tidal volume, inspiratory reserve volume, and expiratory reserve volume is known as the vital capacity"
"The sum of the tidal volume, inspiratory reserve volume, expiratory reserve volume, and residual volume is known as the total lung capacity"
"The volume of gas present in the lungs after a maximal inspiration is known as the total lung capacity"
"Which lung capacities cannot be measured on spirometry? Functional residual capacity, Total lung capacity::2"
"Functional residual capacity may be measured using helium dilution or body plethysmograph"
"What is the typical normal value for anatomic dead space (mL)? 150 mL"
"The volume of the anatomic dead space plus the alveolar dead space comprises the \physiologic dead space\\"\""
"The apex of a healthy lung is the largest contributor of alveolar dead space"
"Physiologic dead space is the total volume of the lungs that does not participate in gas exchange"
"In healthy lungs, the physiologic dead space is approximately equal to the anatomic dead space"
"In certain pathologic situations, the physiologic dead space may become greater than the anatomic dead space, suggesting a(n) ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) defect"
"Pathologic dead space is when part of the respiratory zone is ventilated::perfused/ventilated, but not perfused::perfused/ventilated"
"What equation may be used to determine the physiologic dead space (VD)? "
"Minute ventilation is the total volume of gas that enters the lungs per unit time"
"Alveolar ventilation is the volume of gas per unit time that reaches the alveoli (accounts for physiologic dead space)"
"What equation may be used to calculate minute ventilation? Minute Ventilation (VE) = VT * Respiratory Rate"
"What equation may be used to calculate alveolar ventilation? Alveolar Ventilation (VA) = (VT - VD) * Respiratory Rate"
"What is the normal range of respiratory rates for a healthy adult (breaths/min)? 12-20 breaths/min"
"If CO2 production is constant, then the arterial and alveolar Pco2 is determined by alveolar ventilation"
"What is the effect of increased alveolar ventilation on arteriolar (and alveolar) Pco2? Decreased Pco2"
"What is the effect of decreased alveolar ventilation on arteriolar (and alveolar) Pco2? Increased Pco2"
"The alveolar gas equation states that the alveolar Po2 (PAo2) equals: "
"When using the alveolar gas equation, the respiratory quotient (R) is equal to the ratio of CO2 produced / O2 consumed"
"The approximate Po2 in inspired, humidified air (PIO2) at sea level is 150 mmHg"
"The gradient between PAo2 - Pao2 is known as the A-a gradient and is normally 10 - 15 mmHg"
"The total volume of air that can be forcibly expired after a maximal inspiration is known as the forced vital capacity (FVC)"
"The volume of air that can be forcibly expired after a maximal inspiration in one second is known as the FEV1"
"The normal value for the ratio of FEV1/FVC is approximately 0.8"
"In obstructive lung disease, the FEV1/FVC is decreased"
"In restrictive lung disease, the FEV1/FVC is normal or increased"
"The diaphragm is the most important muscle for inspiration"
"When the diaphragm contracts, the abdominal contents are pushed downwards"
"During exercise or respiratory distress, the external intercostal muscles and accessory muscles may be used for vigorous inspiration"
"What muscles are normally used for expiration at rest? none :) (normally passive)"
"During exercise or in diseases with increased airway resistance (e.g. asthma), abdominal muscles and internal intercostal muscles may be used to aid expiration"
"Lung compliance may be calculated by the equation C = ΔV/ΔP"
"The compliance of the lungs and chest wall is inversely proportional to their elastance"
"The compliance of the lungs and chest wall is inversely proportional to the wall stiffness"
"Elastic recoil generates the force corresponding to the tendency for the lungs to collapse inward and the chest wall to spring outward"
"Elastic recoil is inversely proportional to compliance and directly proportional to elastance"
"A lung with high compliance is easier to fill"
"A lung with low compliance is harder to fill"
"The slope of a respiratory system pressure-volume curve represents lung compliance"
"The slope (compliance) of the pressure-volume loop curves for inspiration and expiration are different, exhibiting a phenomenon known as hysteresis"
"Hysteresis occurs due to the need to overcome surface tension forces during lung inflation (inspiration)"
"Are the lungs generally more compliant during inspiration or expiration? Expiration (think hysteresis)"
"The intermolecular forces between liquid molecules lining the lung are much stronger than the forces between liquid and air"
"During initial inspiration, liquid molecules are close together and intermolecular forces are high"
"During expiration, the slope of the pressure-volume loop increases as the density of surfactant molecules rapidly increases"
"At FRC, the intrapleural space normally has a(n) negative pressure relative to the atmosphere"
"At functional residual capacity, the inward pull of the lung is balanced by the outward pull of the chest"
"If a sharp object punctures the intrapleural space (pneumothorax), the intrapleural pressure becomes equal to atmospheric pressure"
"The compliance of the lung-chest wall system is less than that of the lungs or chest wall alone"
"At FRC, airway and alveolar pressures are equal to 0 (atmospheric pressure)"
"When lung volume is less than FRC, there is a net expanding force on the lung-chest wall system"
"When lung volume is greater than FRC, there is a net collapsing force on the lung-chest wall system"
"At highest lung volumes, both the lungs and the chest wall contribute to collapsing forces on the lung-chest wall system"
"What is the effect of emphysema on lung compliance? Increased compliance"
"At the original FRC, the tendency of the lung to collapse in a patient with emphysema is less than the tendency of the chest wall to expand"
"What is the effect of emphysema on functional residual capacity (FRC)? Increased FRC"
"A patient with emphysema breathes at a higher lung volume and will thus have a(n) barrel-shaped chest (increased anterior-posterior diameter)"
"What is the effect of normal aging on lung compliance? Increased compliance"
"What is the effect of pulmonary fibrosis on lung compliance? Decreased compliance"
"At the original FRC, the tendency of the lung to collapse in a patient with pulmonary fibrosis is greater than the tendency of the chest wall to expand"
"What is the effect of pulmonary fibrosis on functional residual capacity (FRC)? Decreased FRC"
"What is the effect of pulmonary edema on lung compliance? Decreased compliance"
"What is the effect of pneumonia on lung compliance? Decreased compliance"
"What is the effect of surfactant on lung compliance? Increased compliance"
"The law of Laplace states that the collapsing pressure of an alveoli, P, is equal to 2T / r"
"According to the law of Laplace, a large alveolus will have a(n) low collapsing pressure"
"According to the law of Laplace, a small alveolus will have a(n) high collapsing pressure"
"Surfactant is a mixture of phospholipids that line the alveoli and reduce their surface tension"
"Surfactant reduces surface tension by disrupting the intermolecular forces between liquid molecules"
"Without surfactant, small alveoli are more likely to collapse, which is termed atelectasis"
"In the developing fetus, surfactant synthesis begins as early as gestastional week 20"
"In the developing fetus, mature levels of surfactant are not achieved until around week 35"
"Alveoli have increased tendency to collapse on expiration::inspiration/expiration"
"What equation may be used to calculate the airflow (Q) given the pressure and resistance of the airway? Q = ΔP/R"
"Airflow is inversely proportional to airway resistance"
"Airflow is directly proportional to the pressure gradient"
"The resistance of an airway may be calculated using Poiseuille's equation, which states R = 8ηl/πr4"
"Airway resistance is inversely proportional to the fourth power of the radius of the airway"
"The major site of airway resistance is the medium-sized bronchi"
"What is the effect of parasympathetic innervation on airway resistance? Increased resistance"
"What is the effect of sympathetic innervation on airway resistance? Decreased resistance"
"What is the effect of high lung volumes on airway resistance? Decreased resistance"
"What is the effect of low lung volumes on airway resistance? Increased resistance"
"What is the effect of increased viscosity (e.g. deep-sea diving) on airway resistance? Increased resistance"
"What is the effect of decreased viscosity (e.g. helium inhalation) on airway resistance? Decreased resistance"
"What equation may be used to calculate the pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR)? PVR = (Ppulm artery - PL atrium) / cardiac output"
"The transpulmonary pressure across the lungs is calculated as alveolar pressure minus intrapleural pressure"
"How does the volume of breath change during inspiration? Increased"
"How does the intrapleural pressure change during inspiration (relative to atmosphere)? More negative relative to atmosphere"
"How does the alveolar pressure change during mid-inspiration (relative to atmosphere)? More negative relative to atmosphere"
"As the alveolar pressure becomes negative relative to the atmosphere (mid-inspiration), air flows inwards"
"How does the volume of breath change during expiration? Decreased"
"How does the intrapleural pressure change during expiration (relative to atmosphere)? Less negative relative to atmosphere"
"How does the alveolar pressure change during mid-expiration (relative to atmosphere)? More positive relative to atmosphere"
"As the alveolar pressure becomes positive relative to the atmosphere (mid-expiration), air flows outwards"
"In what normal scenario may intrapleural pressure be positive (relative to the atmosphere)? Forced expiration::specific"
"The partial pressure of a gas (Px) in humidified tracheal air is equal to (PB - PH2O) * F::equation"
"The partial pressure of a gas (Px) in dry expired air is equal to PB * F::equation"
"The concentration of a dissolved gas (Cx) is equal to Px * Solubility"
"Transfer of gases across cell membranes or capillary walls occurs by simple diffusion"
"According to Fick's law, the rate of diffusion of a gas (Vgas) is equal to: "
"The diffusion coefficient (DK) for CO2 is approximately 20x higher than that of O2"
"The lung diffusing capacity (DL) is directly correlated with the permeability of the alveolar-pulmonary capillary barrier"
"The lung diffusing capacity (DL) can be measured with carbon monoxide (CO) because it is exclusively diffusion-limited"
"DLCO may be used to estimate the extent to which oxygen passes from the air sacs of lungs into blood"
"The lung diffusing capacity, DL, is directly proportional to the surface area available for diffusion"
"The lung diffusing capacity, DL, is directly proportional to the diffusion coefficient of the gas"
"The lung diffusing capacity, DL, is inversely proportional to the alveolar wall thickness"
"The lung diffusing capacity, DL, decreases in emphysema due to decreased surface area (A)"
"The lung diffusing capacity, DL, decreases in pulmonary fibrosis due to increased wall thickness (Δx)"
"The lung diffusing capacity, DL, increases during exercise due to increased surface area (A)"
"The Po2 in dry inspired air is normally approximately 160 mmHg"
"The Po2 in humidified tracheal air is normally approximately 150 mmHg"
"The partial pressure of oxygen in the alveolar air (PAO2) and arterial blood (PaO2) is normally approximately 100 mmHg"
"The partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the alveolar air (PACO2) and arterial blood (PaCO2) is normally approximately 40 mmHg"
"The partial pressure of oxygen in the venous blood (PvO2) is normally approximately 40 mmHg"
"The partial pressure of carbon dioxide in mixed venous blood (PvCO2) is normally approximately 46 mmHg"
"The partial pressure of O2 in arteriolar blood is slightly lower than alveolar air due to the \physiologic shunt\\"\""
"Physiologic shunt sources are bronchial blood flow and some coronary venous blood (via the thebesian vein to the left ventricle)."
"The total gas concentration in solution is the sum of the dissolved gas plus bound gas plus chemically modified gas"
"The partial pressure gradient is the driving force for the diffusion of a gas"
"Only free, dissolved gas contributes to the partial pressure of a gas in solution"
"In diffusion-limited gas exchange, the gas does not equilibrate by the time blood reaches the end of the capillary"
"In perfusion-limited gas exchange, the gas equilibrates early along the length of the capillary"
"In perfusion-limited gas exchange, diffusion can be increased only if blood flow increases"
"In normal health, O2 exhibits perfusion-limited gas exchange"
"CO2 exhibits perfusion-limited gas exchange"
"N2O exhibits perfusion-limited gas exchange"
"CO exhibits diffusion-limited gas exchange"
"When patients have diseased lung tissue (e.g. fibrosis/emphysema) O2 transfer becomes diffusion-limited"
"At high altitude the partial pressure gradient of O2 is lower and thus equilibration takes longer"
"O2 is carried in blood in two forms: dissolved (2%) or bound to hemoglobin (98%)"
"Hemoglobin is a globular protein consisting of four subunits"
"Each subunit of hemoglobin contains a(n) heme moiety, which is a(n) iron-binding porphyrin, and a polypeptide chain"
"Iron in hemoglobin is normally in the ferrous (Fe2+) state"
"If the iron in hemoglobin is in the ferric (Fe3+) state, it is called methemoglobin"
"Methemoglobin has a(n) increased affinity for cyanide relative to hemoglobin"
"Methemoglobinemia may present with cyanosis and chocolate-colored blood"
"Induced-methemoglobinemia (i.e. nitrites followed by thiosulfate) may be used to treat cyanide poisoning"
"Methemoglobinemia can be treated with methylene blue or vitamin C"
"Polluted/high altitude H2O may contain nitrites, which can cause methemoglobinemia"
"Benzocaine is a local anesthetic that may cause methemoglobinemia in toxic doses"
"Methemoglobinemia is associated with decreased SaO2, decreased O2 content, and normal PaO2"
"Most adult hemoglobin is composed of 2 α and 2 β subunits; known as HbA"
"Fetal hemoglobin, known as HbF, is composed of 2 alpha and 2 gamma subunits"
"Fetal hemoglobin (HbF) has a much higher binding affinity for O2 than adult hemoglobin (HbA)"
"Why must fetal hemoglobin have a much higher O2 binding affinity than HbA? Drives O2 diffusion across placenta from mother to fetus"
"The increased O2 binding affinity of fetal hemoglobin results from decreased affinity of HbF for 2,3-BPG"
"Hemoglobin exists in two forms: taut (deoxygenated) and relaxed (oxygenated)"
"The taut form of hemoglobin has a(n) low affinity for O2"
"The relaxed form of hemoglobin has a(n) high affinity for O2"
"The taut form of hemoglobin is found in most tissues"
"The relaxed form of hemoglobin is found in the respiratory tract"
"Normally 1g of hemoglobin can bind 1.34 mL of O2"
"Normally there is ~15 g/dL of hemoglobin in blood"
"The O2-binding capacity of blood is 20.1 mL O2/ 100 mL blood"
"What equation may be used to calculate the O2 content of blood? O2 content =  \(1.34*Hb*SaO_2 + 0.003*PaO_2\)"
"What equation may be used to calculate O2 delivery to tissues? O2 delivery = cardiac output * O2 content of blood"
"The sigmoidal shape of the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve is due to positive cooperativity (increased affinity for each sucessive O2 bound)"
"A(n) hemo-globin molecule has the potential to bind 4 O2 molecule(s)"
"A(n) myo-globin molecule has the potential to bind 1 O2 molecule(s)"
"The P50 of the oxygen-Hb dissociation curve is the Po2 at which hemoglobin is 50% saturated"
"Does the oxygen-myoglobin dissociation curve have a sigmoidal shape? Why? No, myoglobin is monomeric (no positive cooperativity)"
"Shifts of the O2-Hb dissociation curve to the right occur when there is decreased affinity of hemoglobin for O2"
"Shifts of the O2-Hb dissociation curve to the right cause increased unloading of O2 at tissues"
"Increased pCO2 and resulting decrease of pH enhancing the release of O2 from hemoglobin is called the Bohr effect"
"Increases in Pco2 cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the right"
"Decreases in pH cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the right"
"Increases in temperature cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the right"
"Increases in 2,3-BPG cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the right"
"2,3-BPG decreases the affinity of hemoglobin for O2 by binding to hemoglobin β chains"
"How do levels of 2,3-BPG change at high altitudes? Increased"
"2,3-BPG increases under hypoxic conditions (e.g. high altitude)"
"High altitudes indirectly cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the right"
"Factors that shift the O2-Hb dissociation curve to the right favor the taut form of hemoglobin"
"Shifts of the O2-Hb dissociation curve to the left occurs when there is increased affinity of hemoglobin for O2"
"Shifts of the O2-Hb dissociation curve to the left cause decreased unloading of O2 at tissues"
"Decreases in Pco2 cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the left"
"Increases in pH cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the left"
"Decreases in temperature cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the left"
"Decreases in 2,3-BPG cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the left"
"Increases in hemoglobin F cause the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the left"
"Carboxyhemoglobin is a form of hemoglobin bound to CO in place of O2"
"Carbon monoxide binds competitively to Hb and with 200-250x greater affinity than O2"
"Carboxyhemoglobin causes the O2-hemoglobin dissociation curve to shift to the left"
"Carboxyhemoglobin heme groups not bound by CO have a(n) increased affinity for O2"
"Carboxyhemoglobin causes decreased unloading of O2 at tissues"
"Carboxyhemoglobin causes decreased O2-binding capacity"
"Carboxyhemoglobinemia (CO poisoning) may be treated with 100% O2 and hyperbaric O2"
"Carboxyhemoglobinemia is associated with decreased* SaO2, decreased O2 content, and normal PaO2"
"What is the hemoglobin concentration in carboxyhemoglobinemia? Normal"
"Anemia is associated with normal SaO2, decreased O2 content, and normal PaO2"
"How does the hemoglobin concentration change in anemia? Decreased"
"Polycythemia is associated with normal SaO2, increased O2 content, and normal PaO2"
"How does the hemoglobin concentration change in polycythemia? Increased"
"Erythropoietin (EPO) is a hormone synthesized in the kidneys in response to hypoxia"
"Decreased O2 delivery to the kidneys due to hypoxia causes increased production of hypoxia-inducible factor 1α, which then stimulates synthesis of EPO"
"Hypoxia-inducible factor 1α acts on renal fibroblasts to cause synthesis of the mRNA for erythropoietin"
"Erythropoietin (EPO) causes differentiation of proerythroblasts, which undergo further development to form mature erythrocytes"
"Hemoglobin may act as a(n) buffer for H+ ions"
"One way in which CO2 is carried in the blood is bound to hemoglobin, known as carbaminohemoglobin (HbCO2) (5%)"
"The majority of CO2 transported in blood is in the form of HCO3- (bicarbonate) (90%)"
"CO2 binding to hemoglobin favors the taut form, thus reducing Hb affinity for O2"
"Decreased O2 binding to hemoglobin causes increased affinity for CO2 and H+ (Haldane effect)"
"Increased O2 binding to hemoglobin causes decreased affinity for CO2 (Haldane effect)"
"In red blood cells (in plasma), CO2 is combined with H2O via the enzyme carbonic anhydrase, forming H2CO3"
"H2CO3, formed from CO2 and H2O in red blood cells, dissociates into H+ and HCO3-"
"The H+ in red blood cells (from H2CO3) is buffered by deoxyhemoglobin"
"The HCO3- in red blood cells (from H2CO3) is transported into the plasma in exchange for Cl-"
"The HCO3- transported out of RBCs is carried to the lungs in the plasma of venous blood"
"In the lungs, oxygenation of hemoglobin promotes H+ release from its buffering sites"
"In the lungs, HCO3- enters the red blood cells in exchange for Cl-"
"In the lungs, H2CO3 in the red blood cell is reconverted to CO2 and H2O and expired"
"Somatostatinoma may present with gallstones and steatorrhea due to inhibition of secretin and CCK"
"Somatostatinoma may present with achlorhydria due to inhibition of gastrin"
"The mnemonic FROM JANE describes the symptoms of bacterial endocarditis"
"Which two vasculitides are associated with positive serum p-ANCA? Churg-Strauss syndrome and Microscopic polyangiitis"
"The Cl--HCO3- exchange that occurs across the RBC membrane is accomplished by an anion exchange protein called band three protein"
"The pulmonary circulation is normally characterized as a(n) low::high/low resistance, high::high/low compliance system"
"A decrease in PAO2 causes a hypoxic vasoconstriction that shunts blood away from poorly ventilated regions of the lung"
"Fetal pulmonary vascular resistance is very high because of generalized hypoxic vaso-constriction"
"Decreased Po2 (hypoxia) causes vaso-constriction in the pulmonary circulation"
"Increased Pco2 (hypercapnia) causes vaso-constriction in the pulmonary circulation"
"Decreased Po2 (hypoxia) causes vaso-dilation in the systemic circulation"
"In zone 1 (apex) of the lung, blood flow (Q) is lowest"
"In zone 3 (base) of the lung, blood flow (Q) is highest"
"Rank the following variables for zone 1 of the lung: PA, Pa, and Pv PA > Pa > Pv"
"Rank the following variables for zone 2 of the lung: PA, Pa, and Pv Pa > PA > Pv"
"Rank the following variables for zone 3 of the lung: PA, Pa, and Pv Pa > Pv > PA"
"In zone 1 of the lung, high alveolar pressure may compress the capillaries and reduce blood flow in this zone"
"In zone 2 of the lung, blood flow is driven by the difference between arteriolar and alveolar pressure"
"In zone 3 of the lung, blood flow is driven by the difference between arteriolar and venous pressure"
"In right-to-left shunts, hypoxemia always occurs because a significant fraction of the cardiac output is not delivered to the lungs"
"A defining characteristic of hypoxemia caused by a right-to-left shunt is that it cannot be corrected with high O2 gas"
"Do left-to-right shunts result in hypoxemia? No"
"A consequence of pulmonary hypertension is right ventricular hypertrophy with eventual cor pulmonale"
"The ventilation/perfusion (V/Q) ratio is the ratio of alveolar ventilation to pulmonary blood flow"
"The normal average value for V/Q is 0.8"
"In zone 1 (apex) of the lung, alveolar ventilation (V) is lowest"
"In zone 3 (base) of the lung, alveolar ventilation (V) is highest"
"The V/Q ratio is highest in zone 1 (apex) of the lung"
"The V/Q ratio is lowest in zone 3 (base) of the lung"
"The V/Q ratio at the apex of the lung is normally 3, indicating wasted ventilation"
"The V/Q ratio at the base of the lung is normally 0.6, indicating wasted perfusion"
"What is the ideal V/Q ratio for adequate gas exchange? 1 (ventilation matches perfusion)"
"If there is a(n) blood flow obstruction, the V/Q ratio = ∞ (dead space)*"
"If there is a(n) airway obstruction, the V/Q ratio = 0 (shunt)"
"What type of V/Q mismatch occurs due to pulmonary embolus? Dead space*"
"What type of V/Q mismatch occurs due to airway obstruction? Shunt (perfusion but no ventilation)"
"Does 100% O2 improve PaO2 in V/Q mismatch due to physiologic dead space? Yes, assuming < 100% dead space"
"Does 100% O2 improve PaO2 in V/Q mismatch due to shunt? No"
"Certain organisms that thrive in high O2 (e.g. TB) flourish in the apex of the lung"
"With exercise (increased cardiac output), there is vasodilation of apical capillaries in the lung, which causes the V/Q ratio to approach a value of 1"
"Breathing as an involuntary process is controlled by the medulla and pons of the brain stem"
"The medullary respiratory center is located in the reticular formation and contains an inspiratory and expiratory center"
"The dorsal and ventral respiratory groups are located in the medulla of the brain stem"
"The dorsal respiratory group is primarily responsible for inspiration and generates the basic rhythm for breathing"
"The dorsal respiratory group receives sensory input from peripheral chemoreceptors via the glossopharyngeal (CN IX) and vagus (CN X) nerves"
"The dorsal respiratory group receives sensory input from lung stretch receptors via the vagus (CN X) nerve"
"The dorsal respiratory group sends its motor output to the diaphragm via the phrenic nerve"
"The ventral respiratory group is primarily responsible for expiration and is not active during normal, quiet breathing"
"The apneustic center is located in the lower pons and stimulates inspiration"
"The pneumotaxic center is located in the upper pons and inhibits inspiration"
"Commands from the cerebral cortex can temporarily override the automatic respiratory brain stem centers"
"Where are the central chemoreceptors located? Medulla"
"Central chemoreceptors are especially sensitive to the pH of the cerebrospinal fluid"
"In response to decreased pH sensed by chemoreceptors, the breathing rate increases (hyperventilation)"
"Central chemoreceptors respond indirectly to increased Pco2 and directly to decreased pH"
"Where are the peripheral chemoreceptors located? Carotid bodies and aortic bodies::2"
"Peripheral chemoreceptors respond to decreases in Pao2 and pH"
"Peripheral chemoreceptors respond to increases in Pco2"
"Peripheral chemoreceptors respond to decreased Po2 when the arterial Po2 is less than 60 mmHg"
"Increases in arterial H+ stimulate the carotid body peripheral chemoreceptors only, independent of changes in Pco2"
"Lung stretch receptors are mechanoreceptors located in the smooth muscle of the airways"
"Lung stretch receptors cause a(n) decreased breathing frequency in response to distention of the lungs (Hering-Breuer reflex)"
"Irritant receptors are located between the airway epithelial cells and are stimulated by noxious substances"
"Joint and muscle receptors are activated during movement of the limbs and stimulate early breathing during exercise"
"Juxtacapillary (J) receptors are located in the alveolar walls and cause rapid, shallow breathing in response to pulmonary capillary engorgement (e.g. left heart failure)"
"In response to exercise, there is increased CO2 production"
"In response to exercise, there is increased ventilation rate to meet O2 demand"
"In response to exercise, the V/Q ratio from apex to base becomes more even (even or uneven)"
"In response to exercise, there is increased pulmonary blood flow, due to increased cardiac output"
"There is a(n) decrease in pulmonary resistance associated with increased perfusion of pulmonary capillary beds"
"In response to strenuous exercise, there is decreased pH, secondary to lactic acidosis"
"How does Paco2 change in response to exercise? No change"
"How does Pao2 change in response to exercise? No change"
"In response to exercise, there is increased venous CO2 content"
"In response to exercise, there is decreased venous O2 content"
"In response to decreased atmospheric oxygen (e.g. high altitude), there is a(n) decreased Pao2"
"In response to decreased Pao2 (e.g. high altitude), there is increased ventilation"
"Increased ventilation (e.g. high altitude) causes decreased Paco2"
"High altitude initially causes respiratory alkalosis and hypoxia, which may cause acute altitude sickness"
"In response to high altitude, there is a chronic increase in ventilation"
"The respiratory alkalosis that occurs as a result of ascent to high altitude may be treated with carbonic anhydrase inhibitors"
"Living at high altitude chronically causes hypoxia which increases the synthesis of erythropoietin, causing polycythemia"
"In response to high altitude, there is a(n) increase in 2,3-BPG"
"In response to high altitude, there are cellular changes, such as increased mitochondria"
"In response to respiratory alkalosis (e.g. due to high altitude), there is increased renal excretion of HCO3-"
"In response to high altitude, there is chronic hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction which results in pulmonary hypertension and RV hypertrophy"
"Hypoxemia is defined as a decrease in Pao2"
"Is the A - a gradient normal, increased, or decreased, in response to high altitude? Normal"
"Is the A - a gradient normal, increased, or decreased, in response to hypoventilation (e.g. opioid use, obesity hypoventilation syndrome)? Normal"
"Is the A - a gradient normal, increased, or decreased, in response to diffusion defects (e.g. fibrosis, pulmonary edema)? Increased"
"Is the A - a gradient normal, increased, or decreased, in response to V/Q mismatch? Increased"
"Is the A - a gradient normal, increased, or decreased, in response to right-to-left shunts? Increased"
"What cause of hypoxemia is not greatly helped by supplemental O2? Right-to-left shunt"
"Hypoxia is defined as a decrease of O2 delivery to tissues"
"Hypoxia may be caused by a(n) decreased cardiac output"
"Hypoxia::hypoxia or hypoxemia may be caused by hypoxemia::hypoxia or hypoxemia"
"Hypoxia may be caused by anemia, due to decreased levels of hematocrit and Hb"
"Hypoxia may be caused by carbon monoxide poisoning, which decreases the O2 content of blood"
"Ischemia is a cause of O2 deprivation due to a loss of blood flow (e.g. impeded arterial flow, decreased venous drainage)"
"Peptide and Protein Hormone Synthesis: The signal peptide of preprohormone attaches to docking proteins on the endoplasmic reticulum, where translation is completed"
"Rhinitis is the inflammation of the nasal mucosa"
"What is the most common cause of rhinitis? Rhinovirus"
"Rhinitis presents with sneezing, congestion, and runny nose (common cold)"
"Allergic rhinitis is a subtype of rhinitis due to a type I hypersensitivity reaction (e.g. to pollen)"
"Allergic rhinitis is characterized by an inflammatory infiltrate with eosinophils::WBC type"
"Allergic rhinitis is associated with other atopic disorders, such as asthma and eczema"
"Nasal polyps are protrusions of edematous, inflamed nasal mucosa"
"Nasal polyps are usually secondary to repeated bouts of rhinitis"
"Nasal polyps are associated with cystic fibrosis in children"
"Nasal polyps are associated with aspirin-induced asthma in adults"
"Aspirin-induced asthma is characterized by a triad of asthma, aspirin-induced bronchospasms, and nasal polyps"
"Angiofibromas are benign tumors of nasal mucosa composed of large blood vessels and fibrous tissues"
"What demographic is classically associated with angiofibroma? Adolescent males"
"Nasopharyngeal angiofibromas often present with profuse epistaxis"
"Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is a malignant tumor of nasopharyngeal epithelium"
"What virus is nasopharyngeal carcinoma associated with? Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV)"
"Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is classically seen in African children"
"Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is classically seen in Chinese adults"
"Biopsy of nasopharyngeal carcinoma usually reveals pleomorphic keratin-positive epithelial cells in a background of lymphocytes"
"Nasopharyngeal carcinoma often presents with involvement of cervical lymph nodes"
"What is the most common cause of acute epiglottitis? H. influenzae type B"
"Acute epiglottitis presents with high fever, sore throat, and drooling with dysphagia"
"Acute epiglottitis may present with muffled voice and inspiratory stridor"
"Acute epiglottitis is associated with risk of acute airway obstruction"
"What is the most common cause of laryngotracheobronchitis (croup)? Parainfluenza virus"
"Laryngotracheobronchitis (croup) presents with a hoarse, \seal bark\\" cough and inspiratory stridor\""
"Vocal cord nodules arise on the true vocal cords"
"Vocal cord nodules are due to excessive use of vocal cords and are usually bilateral::uni- or bilateral"
"Vocal cord nodules are composed of degenerative myxoid connective tissue"
"Vocal cord (Singer's) nodules present with hoarseness and resolve with resting of voice"
"Laryngeal papilloma is a benign papillary tumor of the vocal cord"
"What virus is associated with laryngeal papilloma? HPV (strains 6, 11)"
"Laryngeal papillomas are usually single::# of lesions in adults"
"Laryngeal papillomas are usually multiple::# of lesions in children"
"Laryngeal papillomas may have koilocytic change on biopsy"
"Laryngeal papilloma often presents with hoarseness"
"Laryngeal carcinoma is a squamous cell carcinoma usually arising from the epithelial lining of the vocal cord"
"The major risk factors for laryngeal carcinoma are alcohol and tobacco"
"Laryngeal carcinoma can rarely arise from a laryngeal papilloma"
"Laryngeal carcinoma often presents with hoarseness; other signs include cough and stridor"
"Pneumonia is defined as an infection of the lung parenchyma"
"Pneumonia often occurs when normal defenses are impaired"
"Viral pneumonia may damage the mucociliary escalator, which consequently predisposes to superimposed bacterial pneumonia"
"Clinical features of pneumonia include productive cough with yellow-green or rusty-colored sputum (due to pus and blood, respectively)"
"Pneumonia may present with decreased breath sounds and dullness to percussion"
"Pneumonia may present with fever, chills, and elevated WBC count"
"Pneumonia may present as tachypnea (respiratory rate) with pleuritic chest pain"
"Diagnosis of pneumonia is made by CXR and sputum & blood gram stain/culture"
"Lobar pneumonia is characterized by consolidation of an entire lobe or lung"
"Lobar pneumonia is characterized by neutrophils in the air sacs with a(n) intra-alveolar::location exudate"
"Lobar pneumonia is commonly caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae (95%) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (5%)"
"Initially, lobar pneumonia presents with congestion on gross imaging due to congested vessels and proteinaceous edema in the alveolar airspaces"
"Following the congestion phase, lobar pneumonia presents grossly with red hepatization, due to exudate, neutrophils, and hemorrhage filling the alveolar air spaces"
"Following red hepatization, lobar pneumonia presents grossly with gray hepatization, due to degradation of red blood cells within exudate"
"The final phase of lobar pneumonia is resolution with regeneration of tissue via type II pneumocytes"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia"
"Klebsiella pneumoniae::bug is a cause of pneumonia that most commonly affects the elderly, alcoholics, and diabetics (due to aspiration)"
"Pneumonia due to Klebsiella pneumoniae is caused by enteric flora that are aspirated"
"Klebsiella pneumoniae infection is characterized by a thick mucoid capsule that results in gelatinous, 'currant jelly' sputum"
"Klebsiella pneumoniae is often complicated by abscess formation in the lungs and liver"
"Bronchopneumonia is characterized by scattered, patchy consolidation centered around bronchioles"
"Bronchopneumonia is often multifocal and bilateral::uni- or bilateral"
"What type of pneumonia is characterized by acute inflammatory infiltrates from bronchioles into adjacent alveoli? Bronchopneumonia"
"What type of pneumonia is typically caused by S. pneumoniae, S. aureus, H. influenzae, and Klebsiella? Bronchopneumonia"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of secondary pneumonia 2nd and 3rd are..."
"Pneumonia due to Staphylococcus aureus is often complicated by abscess formation or empyema (pus in the pleural space)"
"Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, and Legionella are common causes of pneumonia superimposed on COPD"
"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common cause of pneumonia in cystic fibrosis patients"
"Legionella pneumophila is a cause of pneumonia that is transmitted from water sources"
"Legionella pneumophila is a cause of pneumonia in immunocompetent patients that is best visualized by silver stain"
"Interstitial (atypical) pneumonia is characterized by diffuse interstitial infiltrates"
"Atypical pneumonia is characterized by diffuse, patchy inflammation that is localized to interstitial areas at alveolar walls"
"How many lobes does interstitial (atypical) pneumonia typically involve? > 1"
"Interstitial (atypical) pneumonia presents with relatively mild upper respiratory symptoms"
"What type of pneumonia is typically caused by Mycoplasma, Chlamydia, Legionella and viruses (RSV, CMV, influenza, adenovirus)? Interstitial (atypical) pneumonia"
"Mycoplasma pneumoniae is the most common cause of atypical pneumonia in young adults"
"What demographic is commonly affected by Mycoplasma pneumoniae? Young adults, especially those living in close quarters"
"One complication of Mycoplasma pneumoniae is autoimmune hemolytic anemia due to high concentrations of cold agglutinins (IgM)"
"What gram stain is Mycoplasma pneumoniae characterized by? No stain (lacks cell wall)"
"Chlamydia pneumoniae is the second most common cause of atypical pneumonia in young adults"
"Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common cause of atypical pneumonia in infants"
"Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common cause of atypical pneumonia in post-transplant patients on immunosuppressive therapy"
"Influenza is a common viral cause of atypical pneumonia in the elderly"
"Influenza virus increases the risk for superimposed bacterial pneumonia (e.g. by S. aureus, H. influenzae)"
"Coxiella burnetii infection is a cause of atypical pneumonia with high fever (Q fever)"
"What demographic is associated with Coxiella burnetii pneumonia? Farmers and veterinarians"
"Lung abscess is a localized collection of pus within the parenchyma"
"Lung abscess is often caused by aspiration of oropharyngeal contents"
"Lung abscess commonly occurs in patients predisposed to loss of consciousness (e.g. alcoholics, epileptics)"
"Lung abscess may occur in patients with bronchial obstruction (e.g. cancer)"
"Lung abscesses are commonly due to anaerobic bacteria such as Bacteroides, Fusobacterium, Peptostreptococcus, and Prevotella"
"Lung abscesses may present with air-fluid levels on CXR, which suggests cavitation"
"What drug is commonly used to treat lung abscesses? Clindamycin"
"Lung abscess secondary to aspiration is most commonly found in the right::left/right lung"
"If a patient is upright during aspiration, an abscess is most likely to form in the basal segments of the right lower lobe of the lung"
"If a patient is lying on their right side during aspiration, an abscess may form in the posterior segment of the right upper lobe of the lung"
"Tuberculosis is due to inhalation of aerosolized Mycobacterium tuberculosis"
"Primary TB results in focal caseating necrosis in the lower or middle lobes of the lung and hilar lymph nodes"
"Primary TB classically forms a(n) Ghon complex, which is a calcified granulomatous lesion with hilar lymphadenopathy"
"What symptoms does primary TB typically present with? Generally asymptomatic"
"Secondary TB typically affects the apex of the lung due to high oxygen tension"
"Primary tuberculosis may progress to miliary tuberculosis, which is a systemic spread of TB that may lead to multi-organ failure"
"What type of pneumonia may be caused by tuberculosis? Tuberculous bronchopneumonia"
"Clinical features of secondary TB include fever and night sweats"
"Clinical features of secondary TB include cough with hemoptysis and weight loss"
"Biopsy of tuberculosis reveals caseating granulomas"
"What stain is Mycobacterium tuberculosis characterized by? Acid fast"
"Secondary TB may involve the CNS, causing meningitis with granulomas at the base of the brain"
"Secondary TB may involve the kidneys, causing sterile pyuria"
"Secondary TB may involve the lumbar vertebrae, causing Pott disease"
"Which zone of the lung has the highest Pao2? Zone 1"
"In paradoxical splitting, the split sound is \paradoxically\\" eliminated with inspiration\""
"After preprohormone has been formed, signal peptides are cleaved, producing a(n) prohormone, which is transferred to the golgi apparatus"
"In the golgi apparatus, peptide sequences are cleaved from the prohormone to form the hormone, which is stored in secretory vesicles for later release"
"Obstructive lung diseases are characterized by obstruction of air flow resulting in air trapping in lungs"
"Obstructive lung diseases are characterized by a(n) decreased FEV1/FVC ratio"
"Obstructive lung diseases are characterized by a(n) increased total lung capacity"
"Chronic bronchitis is defined as a(n) productive cough lasting > 3 months per year for > 2 years"
"Chronic bronchitis is highly associated with smoking::risk factor"
"Chronic bronchitis is characterized by hypertrophy/hyperplasia of bronchial mucinous glands"
"Chronic bronchitis leads to an increased Reid index, which is the thickness of mucus glands relative to the overall bronchial wall thickness"
"In chronic bronchitis, the Reid index is > 50% (normal is < 40%)"
"Chronic bronchitis is associated with cyanosis, due to early-onset hypoxemia from shunting"
"Chronic bronchitis is associated with (hypercapnia) CO2 retention due to mucus plug trapping"
"What sounds may be heard on respiratory exam in a patient with chronic bronchitis? Wheezing, crackles::2"
"Chronic complications of chronic bronchitis include pulmonary hypertension with progression to cor pulmonale"
"Chronic bronchitis patients have increased risk of acquiring infection"
"What effect may chronic bronchitis secondarily have on RBC levels? Increased (polycythemia)"
"Chronic bronchitis presents with productive cough due to excessive mucus production and late-onset dyspnea"
"Emphysema is characterized by enlargement of air spaces"
"Emphysema is characterized by the destruction of alveolar air sacs"
"Emphysema is characterized by loss of elastic recoil, which inhibits the ability to exhale air from the alveoli (air trapping)"
"Emphysema is characterized by loss of elastic recoil, which may lead to airway collapse during exhalation"
"Emphysema is due to an imbalance of proteases (e.g. elastase) and antiproteases (e.g. α1-antitrypsin)"
"Inflammation in the lung normally leads to release of proteases by neutrophils and macrophages"
"α1-antitrypsin is an enzyme that neutralizes proteases (e.g. elastase) in the lung"
"Emphysema may be caused by excessive inflammation/proteases::general or lack of α1-antitrypsin"
"The most common cause of emphysema is smoking"
"Smoking results in centriacinar emphysema that is most severe in the upper lobes of the lung"
"α1-antitrypsin deficiency results in panacinar emphysema that is most severe in the lower lobes of the lung"
"α1-antitrypsin deficiency is caused by a mutation in the SERPINA1 gene which leads to misfolding of the mutated protein"
"What liver pathology is associated with α1-antitrypsin deficiency? Cirrhosis"
"Mutant α1-antitrypsin polymerizes and accumulates in the endoplasmic reticulum of hepatocytes, resulting in liver damage (e.g. cirrhosis)"
"α1-antitrypsin deficiency is characterized by pink/purple colored, PAS-positive globules in hepatocytes"
"What is the normal allele for α1-antitrypsin? PiM"
"What is the most clinically significant mutant allele for α1-antitrypsin? PiZ"
"What genotype is associated with an asymptomatic phenotype with decreased α1-antitrypsin? PiMZ heterozygotes"
"PiMZ heterozygotes (α1-antitrypsin) are at significant risk for emphysema if they smoke"
"What genotype is associated with significant risk for panacinar emphysema and liver cirrhosis (α1-antitrypsin)? PiZZ homozygotes"
"Clinical features of emphysema include dyspnea and cough with minimal::quantity sputum production"
"Emphysema often presents with prolonged expiration with pursed lips"
"Emphysema may present with weight loss"
"Emphysema is characterized by increased AP diameter with a flattened diaphragm on CXR"
"Emphysema may present with increased lung field lucency on CXR"
"Chronic complications of emphysema include hypoxemia (due to destruction of capillaries in the alveolar sac) with eventual cor pulmonale"
"Asthma is defined as bronchial hyperresponsiveness with reversible airway bronchoconstriction"
"Asthma is most often due to allergic stimuli (type I HSR), but may also be triggered by viral URIs and stress"
"Asthma is often associated with allergic rhinitis, eczema, and a family history of atopy"
"Asthma most commonly presents in childhood::age group"
"Pathogenesis of asthma involves allergens inducing a TH2 phenotype in CD4+ T cells of genetically susceptible individuals"
"Asthma pathogenesis: TH2 cells secrete IL-4 which mediates class switching to IgE"
"Asthma pathogenesis: TH2 cells secrete IL-5 which attracts eosinophils"
"Asthma pathogenesis: TH2 cells secrete IL-10 which stimulates TH2 cells and inhibits TH1 cells"
"Re-exposure to an allergen in asthmatics leads to IgE-mediated activation of mast cells"
"In an asthmatic response, mast cells release preformed histamine granules (early-phase reaction)"
"In an asthmatic response, mast cells lead to generation of leukotrienes C4, D4, and E4 (early-phase reaction)"
"In an asthmatic response, inflammatory mediators, especially major basic protein from eosinophils, damages cells and perpetuates bronchoconstriction (late-phase reaction)"
"One clinical feature of asthma is a productive cough with spiral-shaped mucus plugs, known as Curschmann spirals"
"One clinical feature of asthma is a productive cough with eosinophil-derived crystals, known as Charcot-Leyden crystals"
"Asthma is associated with bronchial smooth muscle hypertrophy"
"Clinical diagnosis of asthma may be aided with spirometry (PFTs) and methacholine challenge"
"Asthma classically presents with episodic cough, dyspnea, and wheezing (lung sound)"
"Asthma may present with tachypnea::respiratory rate"
"Which form of lung disease is associated with pulsus paradoxus? Obstructive::restrictive or obstructive?"
"Asthma may present with a(n) decreased inspiratory/expiratory ratio"
"Asthma may cause excessive production of mucus with resultant mucus plugging"
"Asthma may present with peribronchial cuffing on CXR"
"Severe, unrelenting asthma attacks can result in status asthmaticus and death"
"Bronchiectasis is due to chronic necrotizing inflammation or obstruction which results in permanently dilated airways"
"Bronchiectasis is an obstructive lung disease that may be caused by cystic fibrosis"
"Which obstructive lung disease may be caused by Kartagener syndrome? Bronchiectasis"
"Bronchiectasis is associated with bronchial obstruction, such as a tumor or foreign body"
"Bronchiectasis is associated with poor ciliary motility (e.g. smoking, Kartagener syndrome)"
"Bronchiectasis is associated with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, which is a hypersensitivity reaction to Aspergillus"
"Which obstructive lung disease may be caused by allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis? Bronchiectasis"
"Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis is usually seen in individuals with asthma or cystic fibrosis"
"Bronchiectasis may present with dyspnea and cough with hemoptysis"
"Bronchiectasis is associated with recurrent infections and foul-smelling, purulent sputum"
"Bronchiectasis may cause digital clubbing"
"Secondary (AA) amyloidosis and hypoxemia with cor pulmonale are complications of bronchiectasis::which lung problem"
"Which obstructive lung disease is associated with secondary (AA) amyloidosis? Bronchiectasis"
"Generally, obstructive lung diseases increase risk for chronic, hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction with subsequent cor pulmonale"
"Restrictive lung diseases are characterized by a FEV1/FVC ratio > 80%"
"Restrictive lung diseases are characterized by a(n) decreased total lung capacity"
"Restrictive lung diseases are characterized by a(n) decreased residual volume and functional residual capacity"
"Restrictive lung diseases are most commonly due to interstitial diseases of the lung"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is fibrosis of the lung interstitium with unknown cause"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is likely related to cyclical lung injury, with TGF-β from injured pneumocytes inducing increased collagen deposition and fibrosis"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis presents clinically with progressive dyspnea, cough, and digital clubbing"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is initially seen on CT in subpleural patches"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis eventually results in diffuse fibrosis with end-stage 'honeycomb' lung on CT"
"What is the treatment for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis? Lung transplant"
"Pneumoconioses are a subset of restrictive lung diseases characterized by interstitial fibrosis due to occupational exposure"
"Pneumoconioses requires chronic exposure to small particles that are fibrogenic"
"Pneumoconioses are due to release of fibrogenic factors from alveolar macrophages that have engulfed foreign, fibrogenic particles"
"Coal workers' pneumoconiosis results from prolonged coal (carbon) dust exposure"
"Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is also known as \black lung disease\\"\""
"Mild exposure to carbon (e.g. pollution) results in anthracosis, which is an asymptomatic condition characterized by collections of carbon-laden macrophages"
"Coal workers' pneumoconiosis most commonly affects the upper lobes of the lung"
"Coal workers' pneumoconiosis is characterized by macrophages laden with carbon, causing inflammation and fibrosis"
"Silicosis is a pneumoconiosis that results from prolonged silica exposure"
"Silicosis is seen in sandblasters, silica miners, and foundries"
"Silica may impair macrophages and disrupt phagolysosome formation, increasing susceptibility to TB"
"What pneumoconiosis has an increased risk for TB? Silicosis"
"Silicosis presents with fibrotic nodules in the upper lobes of the lung"
"Silicosis may present with \eggshell\\" calcification of the hilar lymph nodes\""
"Berylliosis results from prolonged beryllium exposure"
"Berylliosis is a pneumoconiosis that is seen in miners and workers in the aerospace and electronic manufacturing industries"
"Berylliosis most commonly affects the upper lobes of the lung"
"Berylliosis is characterized by a(n) granulomatous histology and therefore is occasionally responsive to treatment with steroids"
"Berylliosis is a pneumoconiosis that presents with noncaseating granulomas in the lung, hilar lymph nodes, and systemic organs"
"Berylliosis increases risk for lung cancer"
"Asbestosis results from prolonged exposure to asbestos fibers"
"Asbestosis is commonly seen in construction workers, shipyard workers, and plumbers"
"Which is more common in individuals exposed to asbestos: lung (bronchogenic) carcinoma or mesothelioma? Lung carcinoma"
"Asbestosis presents with \Ivory white\\""
"Asbestosis lesions may contain Asbestos (ferruginous) bodies, which are golden-brown fusiform rods resembling dumbbells"
"Asbestos bodies may be found in an alveolar septum sputum sample, often obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage"
"Asbestos bodies contain iron and thus may be visualized using a(n) Prussian blue stain"
"Asbestosis most commonly affects the lower lobes of the lung"
"Caplan syndrome is a combination of rheumatoid arthritis and pneumoconiosis with intrapulmonary nodules"
"Sarcoidosis is a systemic disease characterized by widespread noncaseating granulomas"
"What demographic is associated with sarcoidosis? African American females"
"Granulomas due to sarcoidosis often have characteristic stellate-shaped inclusions ('asteroid bodies') within giant cells"
"Granulomas due to sarcoidosis may have Schaumann bodies, which are calcium and protein inclusions inside of giant cells"
"Granulomas due to sarcoidosis most commonly involve the hilar lymph nodes and the lung, leading to restrictive lung disease"
"What eye pathology is associated with sarcoidosis? Uveitis"
"What skin pathologies are associated with sarcoidosis? Cutaneous nodules, Erythema nodosum, Lupus Pernio"
"Sarcoidosis is associated with lupus pernio, which are skin lesions on the face resembling lupus"
"Sarcoidosis may involve the salivary and lacrimal glands, which mimics Sjögren's syndrome"
"Sarcoidosis is associated with Bell palsy, a type of facial paralysis"
"Sarcoidosis is associated with hypercalcemia due to increased 1α-hydroxylase activity in epithelioid histiocytes"
"Sarcoidosis is associated with elevated serum levels of the enzyme angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)::lung"
"What is the treatment for sarcoidosis? Steroids (if symptomatic)"
"What are the most common presenting symptoms of pulmonary sarcoidosis? Dyspnea, Cough::2"
"Sarcoidosis is associated with elevated CD4+/CD8+ ratio in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid"
"Sarcoidosis is often asymptomatic except for enlarged lymph nodes"
"Sarcoidosis may be visualized on CXR as bilateral hilar lymphadenopathy and coarse reticular opacities"
"Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is an autoimmune reaction that generates granulomas in response to inhaled organic antigens (e.g. pigeon breeders lung)"
"Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is a mixed type III/IV hypersensitivity reaction"
"Hypersensitivity pneumonitis is often seen in farmers and those exposed to birds"
"Hypersensitivity pneumonitis presents with fever, cough, and dyspnea hours after exposure; resolves with removal of exposure"
"Hypersensitivity pneumonitis can lead to interstitial fibrosis and restrictive lung disease with chronic exposure to the inhaled antigen"
"Which dyslipidemia drug is associated with hyperglycemia and hyperuricemia as possible adverse effects? Niacin"
"Verapamil::Drug is a Ca2+ channel blocker that may cause hyper-prolactinemia as an adverse effect"
"The normal mean pulmonary artery pressure is between 10 and 14 mmHg"
"Pulmonary hypertension is defined as a mean pulmonary artery pressure > 25 at rest"
"Pulmonary hypertension is characterized by atherosclerosis of the pulmonary trunk"
"Pulmonary hypertension is characterized by smooth muscle (medial) hypertrophy of pulmonary arteries"
"Pulmonary hypertension is characterized by intimal fibrosis of pulmonary arteries"
"Plexiform lesions are small, vascular channels that may be seen with severe, long standing pulmonary hypertension"
"Pulmonary hypertension leads to RV hypertrophy with eventual cor pulmonale"
"Pulmonary hypertension may present with exertional dyspnea and right-sided heart failure"
"What demographic is classically associated with primary pulmonary hypertension? Young adult females"
"Heritable pulmonary hypertension can be due to inactivating mutations of the BMPR2 gene"
"The BMPR2 gene normally inhibits vascular smooth muscle proliferation"
"What is the prognosis of heritable pulmonary hypertension? Poor prognosis"
"2nd pulm htn from Lung Disease is due to: (1) dmg/ inflammation to parenchyma (COPD / Interstitial lung disease) (2) hypoxic pulm vasoconstriction (OSA / high altitude)"
"Secondary pulmonary hypertension due to Heart Disease may arise due to increased volume in the pulmonary circuit (e.g. left heart failure, congenital heart disease)"
"Secondary pulmonary hypertension due to Chronic Thromboemboli may arise with recurrent pulmonary embolism or microthrombi"
"Another type of secondary pulmonary hypertension may arise due to multifactorial causes, such as hematologic, systemic, and metabolic disorders"
"Acute (aka Adult) respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is caused by diffuse alveolar damage with impairment of the alveolar-capillary interface"
"Damage to the alveolar-capillary interface leads to increased alveolar-capillary permeability"
"In ARDS, leakage of protein-rich fluid leads to noncardiogenic pulmonary edema (normal PCWP)"
"In ARDS, leakage of protein-rich fluid leads to formation of intra-alveolar hyaline membranes"
"Clinical features of ARDS include hypoxemia and cyanosis with respiratory distress due to a(n) thickened diffusion barrier"
"Clinical features of ARDS include hypoxemia and cyanosis with respiratory distress due to collapse of air sacs"
"Acute respiratory distress syndrome presents with a \white-out\\" appearance on CXR\""
"Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) is a clinical syndrome characterized by acute onset respiratory failure with bilateral lung opacities and no evidence of HF/fluid overload"
"ARDS is a diagnosis of exclusion with the following criteria (ARDS) - Abnormal chest x-ray - Respiratory failure within 1 week of insult - Decreased Pao2 / FIO2 ratio - Symptoms of respiratory failure are not due to HF/fluid overload"
"The causes of acute respiratory distress syndrome may be remembered with \SPARTAS\\" S: Sepsis P: Pancreatitis"
"In ARDS, activation of neutrophils by proinflammatory cytokines induces free radical and protease-mediated damage of both type I and II pneumocytes"
"Treatment of ARDS includes addressing the underlying cause"
"Treatment of ARDS includes mechanical ventilation with positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) and most importantly low tidal volumes"
"Recovery of ARDS may be complicated by interstitial fibrosis/scarring due to loss of type II pneumocytes"
"Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome is respiratory distress due to inadequate surfactant (not oxygen) levels"
"Surfactant decreases surface tension in the lung, preventing collapse of alveolar air sacs after expiration"
"Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome is associated with premature birth"
"The lecithin:sphingomyelin ratio in amniotic fluid is used to screen for lung maturity"
"As surfactant production is increased (fetal lung maturation), lecithin levels increase, while sphingomyelin levels remain constant"
"What lecithin:sphingomyelin ratio is indicative of adequate surfactant production? > 2"
"What lecithin:sphingomyelin ratio is predictive of NRDS? < 1.5"
"Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome is associated with maternal diabetes due to increased levels of fetal insulin"
"What is the effect of increased fetal insulin on surfactant production? Decreased surfactant production"
"NRDS presents with increased respiratory effort after birth"
"NRDS may present with tachypnea (respiratory rate) with use of accessory muscles and grunting"
"NRDS increases risk for persistence of a(n) patent ductus arteriosus due to persistently low O2 tension (hypoxemia)"
"In patients with neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, supplemental O2 therapy increases the risk for free radical injury"
"Retinopathy of prematurity is an eye complication associated with supplemental O2 therapy in NRDS patients (due to neovascularization)"
"Bronchopulmonary dysplasia is a respiratory complication associated with supplemental O2 therapy in NRDS patients"
"Intraventricular hemorrhage is a CNS complication associated with supplemental O2 therapy in NRDS patients"
"What treatment may be used to treat neonatal respiratory distress syndrome before birth? Maternal steroids"
"What treatment may be used to treat neonatal respiratory distress syndrome after birth? Artificial surfactant for the infant"
"One test for fetal lung maturity is the surfactant:albumin ratio in the amniotic fluid"
"One test for fetal lung maturity is the foam stability index test"
"Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer mortality in the U.S."
"The average age of presentation for lung cancer is 60 years old"
"The key risk factors for lung cancer are cigarette smoke, radon::not arsenic, and asbestos; family history is also a risk factor"
"Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons::main and arsenic are particularly mutagenic carcinogens found in cigarette smoke"
"Lung cancer risk is directly related to the duration and the amount of smoking, which is measured in 'pack-years'"
"Radon is formed by radioactive decay of uranium, which is present in soil"
"Radon accumulates in closed spaces, such as basements"
"Radon is responsible for most of the public exposure to ionizing radiation"
"Radon exposure is the 2nd most frequent cause of lung carcinoma in the U.S."
"Increased risk of lung cancer is seen in uranium miners, due to increased exposure to radon"
"Presenting symptoms of lung cancer are non-specific and include cough, hemoptysis, weight loss, and post-obstructive pneumonia"
"Lung cancer often presents on CXR with a \coin-lesion\\" or on CT with a non-calcified nodule\""
"One benign cause of a 'coin-lesion' on CXR is granuloma (e.g.TB or fungus)"
"One benign cause of a 'coin-lesion' on CXR is bronchial hamartoma, which is benign tumor of lung tissue and cartilage"
"Lung carcinoma is classically divided into two categories: small cell carcinoma (15%) and non-small cell carcinoma (85%)"
"Small cell carcinoma of the lung is usually not amenable to surgical resection and is thus treated with chemotherapy +/- radiation"
"Non-small cell carcinomas of the lung usually do not respond well to chemotherapy and are thus treated upfront with surgical resection"
"Small (oat) cell lung carcinoma arises from neuroendocrine (Kulchitsky)::general (specific name) cells, which are small, dark blue cells"
"What demographic is associated with small (oat) cell carcinoma? Male smokers"
"Small (oat) cell carcinoma is centrally located"
"Small cell carcinoma is characterized histologically by poorly differentiated small cells and is thus very aggressive"
"Small (oat) cell lung carcinoma may produce the anterior pituitary hormone ACTH leading to Cushing syndrome"
"Small (oat) cell lung carcinoma may produce the posterior pituitary hormone ADH leading to SIADH"
"Small (oat) cell lung carcinoma may produce antibodies against presynaptic Ca2+ channels, causing Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome"
"Small (oat) cell lung carcinoma may produce antibodies against neurons, which may cause paraneoplastic myelitis, encephalitis, and subacute cerebellar degeneration"
"Small (oat) cell carcinoma is commonly associated with amplification of the myc oncogene"
"Small (oat) cell carcinoma of the lung is characterized by positive staining for chromogranin A, neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, and NCAM (CD56)"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung is centrally located"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung is characterized histologically by keratin pearls and intercellular bridges"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung is the most common tumor in male smokers"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung may produce PTHrP leading to hyper-calcemia"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung commonly presents as a hilar mass arising from the bronchus"
"Adenocarcinoma of the lung is peripherally located"
"Adenocarcinoma of the lung is characterized histologically by a(n) glandular pattern that often stains positive for mucin"
"Adenocarcinoma of the lung is the most common cancer in nonsmokers and female smokers"
"Adenocarcinoma of the lung is associated with hypertrophic osteoarthropathy (clubbing)"
"Adenocarcinoma of the lung is associated with activating mutations in the KRAS, EGFR, and ALK genes"
"Large cell carcinoma is characterized histologically by poorly differentiated large cells"
"Large cell carcinoma of the lung may present histologically with pleomorphic giant cells"
"Large cell carcinoma of the lung may secrete the hormone β-hCG"
"Is large cell carcinoma related to smoking? Yes"
"Large cell carcinoma of the lung is peripherally located"
"What is the prognosis of large cell carcinoma? Poor"
"Adenocarcinoma in situ is characterized histologically by columnar::shape cells containing mucus that grow along pre-existing bronchioles and alveoli"
"Adenocarcinoma in situ is a subtype of adenocarcinoma that typically arises from club (Clara) cells"
"Is bronchioloalveolar carcinoma related to smoking? No"
"In regards to lung neoplasias; adenocarcinoma in situ is peripherally located"
"Adenocarcinoma in situ of the lung presents similarly to pneumonia on CXR (hazy infiltrates, consolidation)"
"What is the prognosis of bronchioloalveolar carcinoma? Excellent"
"Bronchial carcinoid tumor is characterized histologically by nests of well differentiated neuroendocrine cells"
"Bronchial carcinoid tumor is characterized by positive staining for chromogranin A"
"Is bronchial carcinoid tumor related to smoking? No"
"What is the prognosis of bronchial carcinoid tumor? Excellent (low-grade malignancy; rarely metastasizes)"
"Bronchial carcinoid tumor classically forms a polyp-like mass in the bronchus"
"Symptoms of bronchial carcinoid tumor are related to mass effect or carcinoid syndrome"
"What does the T of TNM staging for lung cancer represent? Tumor size and local extension"
"What does the N of TNM staging for lung cancer represent? Spread to regional lymph nodes (hilar and mediastinal)"
"What does the M of TNM staging for lung cancer represent? Metastasis"
"The adrenal gland is a unique site of distant metastasis from lung cancer"
"Lung cancer has a(n) low 5-year survival rate because the disease often presents late in its course"
"Which is more common, primary lung tumors or metastasis to the lung? Metastasis"
"Metastasis to the lung usually presents as multiple 'cannon ball' nodules on imaging"
"Does metastasis to the lung typically present as single or multiple lesions? Multiple"
"Metastasis to the lung is most often from breast, colon, prostate, and bladder cancer"
"Common sites of metastasis from lung cancer include the adrenal gland, brain, bone, and liver"
"Lung cancer is the most common cause of metastasis to the brain"
"One complication associated with lung cancer is pleural effusion, which is classically seen with adenocarcinoma"
"Superior sulcus tumor (pancoast tumor) is any kind of lung carcinoma that occurs in the apex of the lung"
"Pancoast tumors may cause Pancoast syndrome, which is characterized by shoulder pain, Horner syndrome, atrophy of hand/arm muscles, and edema (due to vascular compression)"
"One complication associated with lung cancer is hoarseness due to compression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve"
"One complication associated with lung cancer is diaphragmatic paralysis due to compression of the phrenic nerve"
"One complication associated with lung cancer is superior vena cava syndrome due to compression of the SVC"
"One complication associated with lung cancer is Horner syndrome due to compression of the superior cervical or stellate ganglia"
"Horner syndrome is a triad of ipsilateral ptosis, miosis, and anhidrosis"
"SVC syndrome is characterized by impaired drainage of the upper extremities, resulting in edema and dilated collateral veins in the upper torso"
"SVC syndrome is characterized by impaired drainage of the head, resulting in \facial plethora\\"\""
"SVC syndrome is characterized by impaired drainage of the neck, resulting in jugular venous distention"
"SVC syndrome can be caused by thromboemboli from indwelling central venous catheters"
"SVC syndrome can raise intracranial pressure (if obstruction is severe), leading to headaches and dizziness"
"Pneumothorax is defined as the accumulation of air in the pleural space"
"Pneumothorax presents with unilateral::uni- or bilateral chest pain and expansion, as well as dyspnea"
"Pneumothorax presents with decreased tactile fremitus on the affected side"
"Pneumothorax presents with hyper-resonance on the affected side"
"Pneumothorax presents with diminished breath sounds on the affected side"
"Primary spontaneous pneumothorax is due to rupture of apical subpleural blebs or cysts"
"What demographic is associated with primary spontaneous pneumothorax? Tall, thin, young males"
"Secondary spontaneous pneumothorax may be due to diseased lung (e.g. bullae in emphysema, infections) or meconium aspiration"
"Traumatic pneumothorax may be due to iatrogenic causes, such as bronchoscopy, subclavian line placement, thoracentesis, barotrauma"
"In tension pneumothorax, the trachea +/- mediastinum shifts away from the side of collapse"
"Traumatic pneumothorax is caused by blunt or penetrating trauma"
"Tension pneumothorax arises when air enters the pleural space but cannot exit"
"Tension pneumothorax needs immediate needle decompression and chest tube placement"
"Mesothelioma is a malignancy of the lung pleura that is highly associated with asbestosis"
"Mesothelioma presents with recurrent pleural effusions, dyspnea, and chest pain"
"Mesothelioma may result in hemorrhagic pleural effusion (exudative) and pleural thickening"
"What histological finding may be associated with mesothelioma? Psammoma bodies"
"Almost all mesotheliomas are calretinin positive, which is negative in most carcinomas"
"Is smoking a risk factor for mesothelioma? No"
"Adenocarcinoma is the most common type of primary lung carcinoma (40%)"
"Primary hemostasis forms a weak platelet plug"
"Primary hemostasis is mediated by interactions between platelets and the vessel wall"
"Secondary hemostasis stabilizes the platelet plug"
"Secondary hemostasis is mediated by the coagulation cascade"
"The first step of primary hemostasis is transient vasoconstriction of the damaged vessel; which is mediated by reflex neural stimulation and endothelin-1 release from endothelial cells"
"Aggregation is a balance between pro and anti-aggregation factors: Pro-aggregation - TXA2 - released by platelets Anti-aggregation - PGI2 and NO - released by endothelial cells"
"Is the plug formed by primary hemostasis stable? No"
"Following transient vasoconstriction (primary hemostasis), there is platelet adhesion to the surface of the disrupted vessel"
"When a blood vessel is injured, von Willebrand factor (vWF) binds exposed subendothelial collagen"
"In order to adhere to the damaged endothelium, platelets bind vWF using the GPIb receptor"
"One source of von Willebrand factor (vWF) is from the Weibel-Palade bodies of endothelial cells"
"One source of von Willebrand factor (vWF) is from the α granules of platelets"
"Following platelet adhesion (primary hemostasis), there is platelet degranulation::not aggregation"
"Binding of ADP to the P2Y12 receptor in primary hemostasis causes shape change by upregulating intracellular Ca2+, promoting effective platelet plug formation"
"Binding of ADP to the P2Y12 receptor promotes optimal exposure of the GPIIb/IIIa receptor on platelets"
"Binding of ADP to the P2Y12 receptor leads to decreased cAMP formation which favors platelet activation"
"What ion is released from dense granules of platelets during degranulation? Ca2+"
"Thromboxane A2 (TXA2) is synthesized by the platelet enzyme cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1)::specific"
"Thromboxane A2 promotes platelet aggregation"
"Following upregulation of GpIIb/IIIa, platelets aggregate at the site of injury via crosslinking of GpIIb/IIIa receptors with fibrinogen to make a temporary platelet plug"
"Aggregation is a balance between pro and anti-aggregation factors: Pro-aggregation - decreased blood flow Anti-aggregation - increased blood flow"
"Binding between GPIIb/IIIa and fibrinogen results in formation of a(n) weak platelet plug"
"Disorders of primary hemostasis are divided into qualitative and quantitative disorders"
"Disorders of primary hemostasis present with symptoms of mucosal and skin bleeding"
"Disorders of primary hemostasis present with symptoms of mucosal bleeding, such as epistaxis (most common overall symptom)"
"A feared complication of severe thrombocytopenia is intracranial bleeding"
"Quantitative disorders of primary hemostasis present with symptoms of skin bleeding, such as petechiae (1-2 mm)"
"Disorders of primary hemostasis present with symptoms of skin bleeding, such as purpura (> 3 mm)"
"Disorders of primary hemostasis present with symptoms of skin bleeding, such as ecchymoses (> 1 cm)"
"Disorders of primary hemostasis present with symptoms of skin bleeding, such as easy bruising"
"Petechiae are a sign of thrombocytopenia and are not usually seen with qualitative platelet disorders"
"Platelet counts < 50K/μL lead to symptoms"
"Normal platelet counts are between 150K and 400K/μL"
"Bleeding time is normally between 2 and 7 minutes"
"Bleeding time is prolonged in all platelet disorders (both quantitative and qualitative)"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is due to autoimmune production of IgG against GPIIb/IIIa"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura is the most common cause of thrombocytopenia in children and adults"
"The autoantibodies in ITP are produced by plasma cells in the spleen"
"The antibody-bound platelets in ITP are consumed by splenic macrophages, resulting in thrombocytopenia"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura commonly follows viral infection"
"The acute form of ITP commonly arises in children::age group weeks after a viral infection or immunization"
"The acute form of ITP is typically self-limited, usually resolving within weeks of presentation"
"What demographic is associated with the chronic form of immune thrombocytopenic purpura? Women of childbearing age"
"Maternal ITP may cause short-lived thrombocytopenia in offspring since anti-platelet IgG can cross the placenta"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura presents with increased bleeding time / PFA"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura presents with decreased platelet count"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura presents with normal PT and normal PTT"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura presents with increased megakaryocytes on bone marrow biopsy"
"The initial treatment for immune thrombocytopenic purpura is corticosteroids"
"What is used to transiently raise the platelet count due to symptomatic bleeding in immune thrombocytopenic purpura? IVIG"
"The treatment for refractory cases of ITP is splenectomy"
"Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia occurs when RBCs are \sheared\\" as they cross microthrombi\""
"Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia is often associated with formation of platelet microthrombi in small vessels"
"Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia is seen in TTP, HUS, and HELLP syndrome"
"What type of red blood cell is associated with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia? Schistocytes (\helmet cells\\")\""
"Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is due to inhibition or deficiency of the ADAMTS13 (vWF metalloprotease) enzyme"
"ADAMTS13 (vWF metalloprotease) is an enzyme that normally cleaves vWF multimers into smaller monomers for eventual degradation"
"In TTP, large, uncleaved vWF multimers lead to increased platelet adhesion with consequent microthrombi formation"
"What demographic is associated with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura? Adult females"
"Decreased ADAMTS13 (e.g. TTP) is usually due to an acquired autoantibody"
"The pentad of classical symptoms seen in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) may be remembered using the mnemonic FAT RN: F: Fever (1/5 patients) A*: Anemia (Microangiopathic Hemolytic Anemia) T*: Thrombocytopenia R: Renal symptoms (1/2 of patients)-More common in HUS N: Neurologic symptoms (2/3 of patients)-More common in TTP"
"Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura is associated with elevated serum LDH"
"What is the treatment (3) for thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)? plasmapheresis, corticosteroids, rituximab"
"Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is characterized by thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and acute renal failure"
"Hemolytic uremic syndrome is classically seen in children with E. coli O157:H7 dysentery, which results from exposure to undercooked beef"
"In children, typical HUS symptoms are accompanied by diarrhea due to infection with E. coli"
"Does HUS in adults typically present with diarrhea? No (E. coli infection not required in adults)"
"The E. coli O157:H7 vero-toxin damages endothelial cells, resulting in platelet microthrombi (e.g. HUS)"
"TTP and HUS present with increased bleeding time"
"TTP and HUS present with decreased platelet count"
"TTP and HUS typically present with normal PT and normal PTT"
"The initial treatment for hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is plasmapheresis"
"Bernard-Soulier syndrome is a qualitative platelet disorder due to a genetic GPIb deficiency"
"Bernard-Soulier syndrome is characterized by enlarged platelets on blood smear"
"In Bernard-Soulier syndrome there is a defect in platelet adhesion"
"Glanzmann thrombasthenia is a qualitative platelet disorder due to a genetic GPIIb/IIIa deficiency"
"In Glanzmann thrombasthenia there is a defect in platelet aggregation"
"Glanzmann thrombasthenia is characterized by no platelet clumping on blood smear"
"Bernard-Soulier syndrome presents with increased bleeding time"
"Bernard-Soulier syndrome presents with normal or decreased platelet count"
"Glanzmann thrombasthenia presents with increased bleeding time"
"Glanzmann thrombasthenia presents with normal platelet count"
"Aspirin irreversibly inactivates the enzyme cyclooxygenase, thus decreasing synthesis of TXA2 and impairing platelet aggregation"
"The coagulation cascade generates thrombin (factor IIa), which converts fibrinogen in the platelet plug to fibrin (factor Ia) *BnB expansion: which 4 factors does this activate (positive feedback)?"
"After fibrin is formed from fibrinogen, it is cross-linked by factor XIII yielding a stable platelet-fibrin thrombus"
"Factors of the coagulation cascade are produced by the liver in an inactive state"
"Activation of the coagulation cascade requires the phospholipid surface of platelets"
"Activation of the coagulation cascade requires Ca2+ ions derived from platelet dense granules"
"Disorders of secondary hemostasis typically present with deep tissue::location bleeding"
"Disorders of secondary hemostasis typically present with re-bleeding after surgical procedures (e.g. dental procedures)"
"Prothrombin time (PT) measures the extrinsic and common pathways of the coagulation cascade"
"Partial thromboplastin time (PTT) measures the intrinsic and common pathways of the coagulation cascade"
"International normalized ratio (INR) is calculated from PT::PT or PTT"
"Which test is used to follow the effects of heparin? PTT::PT or PTT"
"Which test is used to follow the effects of warfarin (coumadin)? PT (via INR), but both are increased::PT or PTT"
"Which coagulation factor(s) are part of the extrinsic coagulation cascade? Factor VII"
"Which coagulation factor(s) are part of the intrinsic coagulation cascade? Factor 8, 9, 11, 12"
"Which coagulation factor(s) are part of the common coagulation cascade? Factor 10, 5, 2 (thrombin), 1 (fibrinogen)"
"Factor XI of the coagulation cascade is activated by factor XIIa"
"Factor IX of the coagulation cascade is activated by factor XIa"
"Factor X of the coagulation cascade may be activated by factor VIIa (extrinsic pathway)"
"Factor V of the coagulation cascade is activated by factor IIa"
"Factor II (prothrombin) is activated to thrombin by factor Xa"
"Tissue thromboplastin activates factor VII, which initiates the extrinsic pathway of the coagulation cascade"
"Subendothelial collagen activates factor XII, which initiates the intrinsic pathway of the coagulation cascade"
"Hemophilia A is a coagulation disorder due to a genetic factor VIII deficiency"
"What is the mode of inheritance of hemophilia A? X-linked recessive"
"Hemophilia A can arise from a(n) new (de novo) mutation without any family history (20%)"
"Which coagulation disorder presents with recurrent hemarthroses, spontaneous / easy bruising, and bleeding after surgery? Hemophilia (A, B, C)"
"Hemophilia B (Christmas disease) is a coagulation disorder due to a genetic factor IX deficiency"
"What is the mode of inheritance of hemophilia B? X-linked recessive"
"Hemophilia C is a coagulation disorder due to a genetic factor XI deficiency"
"What is the mode of inheritance of hemophilia C? Autosomal recessive"
"Treatment of hemophilia A involves desmopressin plus recombinant factor VIII"
"Hemophilia (A, B, C) presents with normal bleeding time"
"Hemophilia (A, B, C) presents with normal platelet count"
"Hemophilia (A, B, C) presents with normal PT and increased PTT"
"A coagulation factor inhibitor is a(n) acquired antibody against a coagulation factor, resulting in impaired factor function"
"What is the most common coagulation factor inhibitor? Anti-Factor VIII"
"In hemophilia A, mixing normal plasma with the patient's plasma (mixing study) does::does/doesn't correct the PTT"
"With a factor VIII coagulation factor inhibitor, mixing normal plasma with a patient's plasma doesn't::does/doesn't correct the PTT"
"Von Willebrand disease is characterized by a genetic vWF deficiency"
"What is the most common inherited bleeding/coagulation disorder? von Willebrand disease"
"What is the mode of inheritance of the most common subtype of von Willebrand disease? Autosomal dominant"
"The most common subtype of von Willebrand disease presents with decreased vWF levels"
"von Willebrand disease typically presents with mild mucosal::locations and skin bleeding"
"Low vWF in von Willebrand disease impairs platelet adhesion"
"von Willebrand disease presents with increased bleeding time"
"von Willebrand disease presents with normal platelet count"
"von Willebrand disease presents with normal PT and normal or increased PTT"
"Why may PTT be elevated in von Willebrand disease? Decreased factor VIII half-life (vWF normally stabilizes factor VIII)"
"von Willebrand disease is associated with an abnormal Ristocetin assay"
"Ristocetin induces platelet aggregation by causing vWF to bind platelet GPIb"
"What is the treatment for von Willebrand disease? Desmopressin"
"Desmopressin increases release of vWF from Weibel-Palade bodies"
"Vitamin K is activated by the enzyme epoxide reductase in the liver"
"Activated vitamin K acts as a co-factor for the enzyme γ-glutamyl carboxylase"
"Vitamin K is necessary for gamma carboxylation of factors II, VII, IX, X, and proteins C and S"
"Which coagulation factors have decreased activity due to vitamin K deficiency? 2, 7, 9, 10::4"
"What proteins have decreased activity due to vitamin K deficiency? Protein C and protein S::2"
"Vitamin K deficiency may occur in newborns due to lack of colonic bacteria that normally synthesize vitamin K"
"Vitamin K deficiency may occur due to long-term antibiotic therapy, which disrupts the gut flora"
"Vitamin K deficiency may occur due to fat malabsorption, which leads to deficiency of fat-soluble vitamins"
"Vitamin K deficiency presents with normal bleeding time"
"Vitamin K deficiency presents with increased PT and increased (in severe cases) PTT"
"Abnormal secondary hemostasis may occur due to liver failure, which causes decreased production of coagulation factors and decreased activation of vitamin K"
"Abnormal secondary hemostasis may occur due to liver failure, which causes decreased activation of vitamin K"
"The effects of liver failure on coagulation is followed using PT::PT or PTT"
"Abnormal secondary hemostasis may occur due to large-volume transfusion, which dilutes coagulation factors, resulting in a relative deficiency"
"Alpha granules of platelets contain vWF and fibrinogen"
"Dense granules of platelets contain Ca2+ and ADP"
"Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a disorder that results in platelet activation secondary to heparin therapy"
"Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia occurs due to production of IgG antibodies against heparin-platelet factor IV complexes"
"The antibody-heparin-PF4 complex may activate platelets, leading to thrombosis and thrombocytopenia"
"Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) occurs due to pathologic activation of the coagulation cascade"
"Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is characterized by widespread microthrombi formation, resulting in ischemia and infarction"
"In disseminated intravascular coagulation, consumption of platelets and factors results in bleeding"
"DIC is associated with bleeding, especially from IV sites and mucosal surfaces"
"Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation (DIC) is almost always secondary to another disease, which may be remembered with \STOP Making New Thrombi\\" S:Sepsis"
"Disseminated intravascular coagulation may occur secondary to obstetric complications due to activation of the coagulation cascade by tissue thromboplastin in the amniotic fluid"
"Disseminated intravascular coagulation may occur secondary to sepsis, especially gram negative bacteria"
"Disseminated intravascular coagulation may occur secondary to malignancy, such as adenocarcinoma, due to activation of the coagulation cascade by mucin"
"Disseminated intravascular coagulation may occur secondary to malignancy, such as acute promyelocytic leukemia, due to activation of the coagulation cascade by primary granules"
"DIC typically presents with increased PT and increased PTT"
"DIC typically presents with decreased platelet count"
"DIC typically presents with increased bleeding time"
"DIC typically presents with decreased fibrinogen"
"What type of red blood cell is associated with disseminated intravascular coagulation? Schistocytes (due to microangiopathic hemolytic anemia)"
"DIC typically presents with increased fibrin split products, particularly D-dimer"
"What is the best screening test for DIC? Elevated D-dimer"
"D-dimers are derived from splitting of cross-linked fibrin"
"Are D-dimers generated from the splitting of fibrinogen? No"
"DIC is associated with decreased factors V and VIII, which helps distinguish it from vitamin K deficiency"
"Treatment of DIC involves addressing the underlying cause"
"Treatment of DIC includes transfusion of blood products and cryoprecipitate as needed"
"Normal fibrinolysis::process removes a thrombus after a damaged vessel heals"
"In the first step of fibrinolysis, plasminogen is converted to plasmin via tissue plasminogen activator (tPA)"
"One role of plasmin is cleavage of fibrin and serum fibrinogen"
"One role of plasmin is destruction of coagulation factors"
"One role of plasmin is inhibition of platelet aggregation"
"Plasmin is inactivated by α2-antiplasmin, which is produced in the liver"
"Disorders of fibrinolysis are due to plasmin overactivity, resulting in excessive cleavage of serum fibrinogen"
"Over-activity of plasmin may occur due to activation by urokinase, which is released following radical prostatectomy"
"Over-activity of plasmin may occur due to reduced production of α2-antiplasmin by the liver (e.g. cirrhosis)"
"Disorders of fibrinolysis present with increased bleeding (resembles DIC)"
"Disorders of fibrinolysis typically present with increased PT and increased PTT"
"Disorders of fibrinolysis typically present with normal platelet count"
"Disorders of fibrinolysis typically present with increased bleeding time"
"Disorders of fibrinolysis typically present with decreased fibrinogen"
"Disorders of fibrinolysis typically present with increased fibrinogen split products"
"Do disorders of fibrinolysis present with elevated D-dimers? No"
"Treatment for disorders of fibrinolysis is aminocaproic acid, which blocks activation of plasminogen"
"Factor X of the coagulation cascade may be activated by factor IX with factor VIII as a cofactor (intrinsic pathway)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction occurs in polyarteritis nodosa? Type III (immune-complex mediated)"
"Fibrates mildly increase the synthesis of HDL::lipoprotein via upregulation of PPAR-α"
"What is the next step if a coin-lesion is identified in a patient on CXR? Review previous CXRs and compare"
"What is the only metabolic pathway for generating ATP, anaerobically? Glycolysis"
"Where in the cell does glycolysis occur? Cytoplasm"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of glycolysis? Phosphofructokinase-1 (PFK-1)"
"Anaerobic glycolysis produces a net of 2 ATP per glucose molecule"
"Anaerobic glycolysis produces a net of 2 NADH per glucose molecule"
"Hexokinase is characterized by a(n) low Km relative to glucokinase"
"Hexokinase is characterized by a(n) low Vmax relative to glucokinase"
"Glucokinase is characterized by a(n) high Vmax relative to hexokinase"
"Is hexokinase activity induced by insulin? No"
"Is hexokinase activity inhibited by glucose-6-phosphate? Yes"
"Is glucokinase activity inhibited by glucose-6-phosphate? No"
"Is a hexokinase gene mutation associated with maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY)? No"
"Is a glucokinase gene mutation associated with maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY)? Yes"
"What is the purpose of phosphorylating a sugar (e.g. glucose to glucose-6-phosphate)? Prevent the sugar from leaving the cell"
"Glucose is converted to glucose-6-phosphate by the enzyme hexokinase in most tissues"
"Glucose is converted to glucose-6-phosphate by the enzyme glucokinase in the liver and β cells of the pancreas"
"Hexokinase is regulated via negative feedback by glucose-6-phosphate"
"Glucokinase is regulated via negative feedback by fructose-6-phosphate"
"Glucokinase is regulated via positive feedback by insulin"
"Glucose-6-phosphate is converted to fructose-6-phosphate via the enzyme isomerase"
"Fructose-6-phosphate is converted to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate via the enzyme phosphofructokinase-1 (PFK-1)"
"Phosphofructokinase-1 is regulated via negative feedback by ATP and citrate"
"Phosphofructosekinase-1 is regulated via positive feedback by AMP and fructose-2,6-bisphospate"
"Fructose-6-phosphate is converted to fructose-2,6-bisphosphate via the enzyme phosphofructokinase-2 (PFK-2)"
"Which organs contains the enzyme phosphofructokinase-2? Liver, Kidney, Heart::3"
"Phosphofructokinase-2 is regulated via positive feedback by insulin"
"Phosphofructokinase-2 is regulated via negative feedback by glucagon"
"Fructose bisphosphatase-2 and phosphofructokinase-2 are the same bifunctional enzyme whose function is reversed by phosphorylation by protein kinase A"
"Increased glucagon (fasting) leads to increased cAMP and protein kinase A, thus increasing activity of FBPase-2 and decreasing activity of PFK-2"
"Increased phosphofructokinase-2 stimulates glycolysis and inhibits gluconeogenesis"
"Which steps of glycolysis require ATP? ::2"
"Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate is converted into glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate and dihydroxyacetone-phosphate via the enzyme aldolase"
"Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate is converted into 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate (1,3-BPG) via the enzyme glyceraldehyde-3P-dehydrogenase (glycolysis)"
"Conversion of glyceraldehyde-3P into 1,3-BPG (glycolysis) produces a molecule of NADH"
"1,3-bisphosphoglycerate is converted into 3-phosphoglycerate via the enzyme phosphoglycerate kinase"
"Conversion of 1,3-BPG into 3-phosphoglycerate (glycolysis) produces a molecule of ATP"
"1,3-bisphosphoglycerate may be converted to 2,3-BPG via the enzyme bisphosphoglycerate mutase in red blood cells"
"3-phosphoglycerate is converted into 2-phosphoglycerate via the enzyme mutase"
"2-phosphoglycerate is converted into phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) via the enzyme enolase"
"Phosphoenolpyruvate is converted into pyruvate via the enzyme pyruvate kinase"
"Conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate into pyruvate (glycolysis) produces a molecule of ATP"
"Pyruvate kinase is regulated via negative feedback by ATP and alanine"
"Pyruvate kinase is regulated via positive feedback by fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (glycolysis)"
"Which steps of glycolysis produce ATP? ::2"
"Which glycolysis enzyme deficiency is the second most common cause of hemolytic anemia? Pyruvate kinase deficiency"
"Pyruvate kinase deficiency presents with increased levels of 2,3-BPG"
"Pyruvate kinase deficiency presents as hemolytic anemia without::with or without Heinz bodies"
"In red blood cells, lack of ATP impairs membrane integrity due to lack of cation transport, causing a(n) extravascular hemolytic anemia"
"In red blood cells, lack of NADH impairs the ability to reduce Fe3+ to Fe2+, predisposing to methemoglobinemia"
"Effect of diabetes on hepatic glycolysis: no answer :) - No PFK-2 due to lack of insulin - No glucose trapping in liver leads to elevated blood glucose (hyperglycemia)"
"Which two organs does galactose primarily enter? Liver, Brain"
"Lactose is converted into galactose and glucose by the enzyme lactase (intestinal brush border)"
"Lactase deficiency may present with diarrhea due to the osmotic effects of undigested lactose"
"Lactase deficiency may present with flatulence and bloating due to anaerobic fermentation of undigested lactose"
"Primary lactase deficiency is characterized by a(n) age-dependent decline in lactose tolerance after childhood"
"Primary lactase deficiency occurs due to absence of the lactase-persistence allele"
"Primary lactase deficiency is common in people of Asian, African, and Native-American descent"
"Secondary lactase deficiency occurs due to loss of the intestinal brush border"
"Congenital primary lactase deficiency is rare::frequency; due to a defective gene"
"Lactase deficiency is characterized by a(n) decreased stool pH"
"Lactase deficiency is characterized by increased hydrogen content with a lactose hydrogen breath test"
"In patients with hereditary lactose intolerance, intestinal biopsy reveals normal mucosa"
"Galactose is converted to galactose-1-phosphate via the enzyme galactokinase"
"Conversion of galactose into galactose-1-phosphate requires a molecule of ATP"
"What eye pathology is associated with galactokinase deficiency? Cataracts"
"What is the inheritance of galactokinase deficiency? Autosomal recessive"
"How soon after birth do symptoms of galactose metabolism disorders present? When feeding begins (lactose is in both breast milk and routine formula)"
"Galactokinase deficiency may present as failure to track objects or failure to develop a(n) social smile"
"Compared to classic galactosemia, galactokinase deficiency is a relatively mild::severity condition"
"Galactose-1-phosphate is ultimately converted to glucose-1-phosphate via the enzyme Gal 1-P uridyltransferase"
"Classic galactosemia is characterized by the absence of the Gal-1-P uridyltransferase enzyme"
"What is the inheritance of classic galactosemia? Autosomal recessive"
"Classic galactosemia causes liver damage and renal damage, which manifests as jaundice, hepatomegaly, and a metabolic acidosis"
"Classic galactosemia causes brain damage, which manifests as intellectual disability"
"Classic galactosemia may lead to E. coli sepsis in neonates"
"Galactose is converted to galactitol via the enzyme aldose reductase"
"Disorders of galactose metabolism may present with cataracts due to accumulation of galactitol in the lens"
"The more serious defects in galactose and fructose metabolism may lead to phosphate (PO43-) depletion"
"Glucose is converted to sorbitol via the enzyme aldose reductase"
"Sorbitol is converted to fructose via the enzyme sorbitol dehydrogenase"
"The tissues/organs that have only aldose reductase (no sorbitol dehydrogenase) may be remembered with the mnemonic \LuRKS\\": L: Lens (primarily aldose reductase) u R: Retina K: Kidneys S: Schwann cells\""
"Sucrose is converted into fructose and glucose by the enzyme sucrase"
"Fructose is converted into fructose-1-phosphate by the enzyme fructokinase"
"Conversion of fructose into fructose-1-phosphate requires a molecule of ATP"
"Essential fructosuria is characterized by a defect in the fructokinase enzyme"
"What is the inheritance of essential fructosuria? Autosomal recessive"
"What symptoms does essential fructosuria typically present with? Asymptomatic; fructose appears in blood and urine"
"How soon after birth do symptoms of fructose metabolism disorders present? Months after; when feeding ends (sucrose/fructose is not found in breast milk)"
"Compared to disorders of galactose metabolism, disorders of fructose metabolism are more mild::severity"
"Fructose-1-phosphate is converted to glyceraldehyde and dihydroxyacetone-P via the enzyme aldolase B *primarily in the liver"
"Hereditary fructose intolerance is characterized by a deficiency of the enzyme aldolase B"
"What is the inheritance of hereditary fructose intolerance? Autosomal recessive"
"In hereditary fructose intolerance, fructose-1-P accumulates, causing a decrease in available phosphate"
"In hereditary fructose intolerance, decreased available phosphate leads to inhibition of glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis"
"What foods are a natural source of fructose? Fruits, Honey::2"
"Hereditary fructose intolerance presents with a(n) negative urine dipstick (positive or negative)"
"In hereditary fructose intolerance, reducing sugars can be detected in the urine"
"Hereditary fructose intolerance may present with hypoglycemia::blood sugar levels"
"Hereditary fructose intolerance may cause liver damage, which manifests as jaundice and cirrhosis"
"Which two organs does fructose primarily enter? Liver, Kidney"
"Compared to fructose intolerance, essential fructosuria is a relatively mild::severity condition"
"Why don't disorders of fructose metabolism present with increased risk for cataracts? fructose isn't reduced by aldose reductase"
"What substrate overrides inhibition of the enzyme phosphofructokinase-1 by ATP in the liver? Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate"
"What carbohydrate metabolism enzyme deficiency may present with failure to track objects or develop a social smile? Galactokinase deficiency"
"The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex is a mitochondrial enzyme complex linking glycolysis and the TCA cycle"
"Pyruvate is converted to acetyl CoA by the enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase"
"Conversion of pyruvate into acetyl CoA releases a molecule of CO2 and NADH"
"Pyruvate dehydrogenase is regulated via negative feedback by ATP, NADH, and acetyl-CoA"
"Pyruvate dehydrogenase is regulated via positive feedback by ADP, Ca2+, and increased NAD+/NADH ratio"
"Pyruvate dehydrogenase requires five enzymes/cofactors: 1. Thiamine pyrophosphate (B1) 2. Lipoic acid 3. Coenzyme A (B5, pantothenic acid) 4. FAD (B2, riboflavin) 5. NAD (B3, niacin)"
"Acetyl-CoA is combined with oxaloacetate via the enzyme citrate synthase, forming citrate"
"Citrate synthase is regulated via negative feedback by ATP"
"Citrate is converted into isocitrate via the enzyme cis-Aconitase (Kreb's cycle)"
"Isocitrate is converted to α-ketoglutarate via the enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase"
"Conversion of isocitrate into α-ketoglutarate releases a molecule of CO2 and NADH"
"Isocitrate dehydrogenase is regulated via negative feedback by ATP and NADH"
"Isocitrate dehydrogenase is regulated via positive feedback by ADP"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme for the Krebs cycle (TCA cycle)? Isocitrate dehydrogenase"
"α-ketoglutarate is converted to succinyl CoA via the enzyme α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase"
"Conversion of α-ketoglutarate into succinyl CoA releases a molecule of CO2 and NADH"
"α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase is regulated via negative feedback by succinyl-CoA, ATP, and NADH"
"Succinyl CoA is converted to succinate via the enzyme succinyl CoA synthetase"
"Conversion of succinyl CoA into succinate produces a molecule of GTP"
"Which step of the Krebs cycle directly produces a molecule of GTP? Succinyl CoA --> Succinate"
"Succinate is converted to fumarate via the enzyme succinate dehydrogenase"
"Conversion of succinate into fumarate produces a molecule of FADH2"
"Fumarate is converted to malate via the enzyme fumarase"
"Malate is converted to oxaloacetate via the enzyme malate dehydrogenase"
"Conversion of malate into oxaloacetate produces a molecule of NADH"
"Which Krebs cycle enzyme requires the same 5 cofactors as pyruvate dehydrogenase (TLCFN)? α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase"
"Where in the cell does the Krebs cycle take place? Mitochondria"
"In total, the TCA cycle produces 3 NADH per acetyl-CoA"
"In total, the TCA cycle produces 1 FADH2 per acetyl-CoA"
"In total, the TCA cycle produces 1 GTP per acetyl-CoA"
"How much ATP is produced from one molecule of NADH via ATP synthase (ETC)? 2.5 ATP"
"How much ATP is produced from one molecule of FADH2 via ATP synthase (ETC)? 1.5 ATP"
"After complete metabolism, what is the total amount of ATP (or GTP) produced from 1 round of the Krebs cycle? 10 ATP equivalents"
"Where in the cell does acetyl CoA production (from pyruvate) take place? Mitochondria"
"Where in the cell does oxidative phosporylation take place? Mitochondria"
"NADH electrons from glycolysis enter the mitochondria via the malate-aspartate or glycerol-3-phosphate shuttle"
"FADH2 electrons from glycolysis are transferred to complex II of the ETC, also known as succinate dehydrogenase"
"Electrons from complex I and II of the ETC are transferred to Coenzyme Q, also known as ubiquinone"
"Electrons from coenzyme Q (ubiquinone) of the ETC are transferred to complex III (Cyto b/c1)::2 names"
"Electrons from complex III of the ETC are transferred to cytochrome C"
"Electrons from cytochrome C of the ETC are transferred to complex IV (Cyto a/a3)::2 names"
"In complex IV, Fe3+ accepts electrons, forming Fe2+, which then donates the electrons to oxygen (forming H2O)"
"The passage of electrons in the ETC results in the formation of a(n) proton gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane"
"In the ETC, protons travel down their gradient through the F0/F1 ATP Synthase pump, generating ATP and heat"
"ATP is transferred from mitochondrial matrix to the intermembrane space through the ATP/ADP translocase antiporter (electron transport chain)"
"Rotenone is an insectiside that inhibits complex I of the ETC"
"What class of drugs may bind to and inhibit complex I of the ETC? Barbiturates"
"Antimycin A is an inhibitor of complex III of the ETC"
"Carbon monoxide, cyanide and sodium azide are inhibitors of complex IV of the ETC"
"Cyanide may inhibit the ETC by binding Fe3+, preventing transfer of electrons to O2 in complex IV"
"One treatment for cyanide poisoning is amyl nitrite, which induces methemoglobinemia"
"One treatment for cyanide poisoning is sodium thiosulfate, which helps restore rhodanese-mediated metabolism of cyanide to thiocyanate"
"One treatment for cyanide poisoning is vitamin (hydroxycobalamin) B12 which may bind cyanide"
"Carbon monoxide::CO, CN-, or N3- may inhibit the ETC by binding Fe2+, preventing transfer of electrons to O2 in complex IV"
"Oligomycin is an inhibitor of ATP synthase of the ETC"
"2,4-dinitrophenol is a(n) uncoupling agent of oxidative phosphorylation"
"What uncoupling agent of oxidative phosphorylation is used illicitly for weight loss? 2,4-dinitrophenol (2,4-DNP)"
"In high doses, aspirin may act as an uncoupling agent of oxidative phosphorylation"
"Thermogenin in brown fat may act as a(n) uncoupling agent of oxidative phosphorylation"
"What is the cause of death in a patient that overdosed on an uncoupling agent (e.g. 2,4-DNP)? Hyperthermia"
"Electron transport inhibitors cause a(n) decreased proton gradient and block of ATP synthesis"
"ATP synthase inhibitors cause a(n) increased proton gradient and a block of ATP synthesis"
"Uncoupling agents cause a(n) decreased proton gradient and a block of ATP synthesis"
"What is the effect of uncoupling agents (ETC) on O2 consumption? Increased"
"Does electron transport continue with electron transport inhibitors (e.g. CO, CN)? No"
"Does electron transport continue with ATP synthase inhibitors (e.g. oligomycin)? No"
"Does electron transport continue with uncoupling agents (e.g. 2,4-DNP)? Yes**"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme for glycogenesis? Glycogen synthase"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme for glycogenolysis? Glycogen phosphorylase"
"Glucose-1-phosphate is converted to UDP-glucose via the enzyme UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (glycogen synthesis)"
"UDP-glucose contributes to glycogen formation via the enzyme glycogen synthase"
"The enzyme glycogen synthase catalyzes the formation of α-(1,4) bonds between glucose molecules"
"Branching enzyme results in the formation of α-(1,6) bonds between glucose molecules"
"Glycogen synthase is regulated via negative feedback by epinephrine and glucagon"
"Glycogen synthase is regulated via positive feedback by insulin, cortisol, and glucose-6-phosphate"
"Glycogen phosphorylase liberates glucose-1-phosphate residues off branched glycogen until 4 glucose units remain on a branch"
"When four glucose units remain on a branch of glycogen, debranching enzyme (4-α-D-glucanotransferase) moves 3 molecules of glucose-1-phosphate from the branch to the linkage"
"When one glucose unit remains on a branch of glycogen, debranching enzyme (α-1,6-glucosidase) cleaves off the last residue, liberating glucose"
"The branched glycogen molecule (pre-debranching enzyme) is cleaved by the enzyme α-1,4-glucosidase (acid maltase) in the lysosomes, only"
"The one to four glucose residues remaining on a branch after glycogen phosphorylase has shortened it are referred to as \limit dextrins\\"\""
" Glycogen phosphorylase::glycogen metabolism enzyme is regulated by positive feedback by epinephrine via the β receptor (liver and muscle)"
"Glycogen phosphorylase is regulated by positive feedback by epinephrine via the α receptor (liver only)"
"Glycogen phosphorylase is regulated via positive feedback by glucagon (liver)"
"Glycogen phosphorylase is regulated via positive feedback by AMP (muscle)"
"Glycogen phosphorylase is regulated via negative feedback by ATP, insulin, and glucose-6-phosphate"
"In skeletal muscle, glycogenolysis ultimately produces glucose-6-phosphate, which is rapidly metabolized during exercise"
"Periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stain identifies glycogen and is thus useful in identifying glycogen storage diseases"
"What is the mode of inheritance of glycogen storage diseases? Autosomal recessive"
"Von Gierke disease is also known as glycogen storage disease type I"
"Von Gierke disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase"
"Von Gierke disease is characterized by severe fasting hypoglycemia"
"Von Gierke disease is characterized by very increased levels of glycogen in the liver and kidneys, with subsequent hepatomegaly and renomegaly"
"Von Gierke disease is associated with increased blood lactate, triglycerides::lipid, and uric acid"
"Which glycogen storage disease has an increased risk for gout? Von Gierke disease"
"Von Gierke disease is characterized by impaired::impaired or functional gluconeogenesis and impaired::impaired or functional glycogenolysis"
"Treatment of Von Gierke disease includes frequent oral glucose or cornstarch between meals"
"Treatment of Von Gierke disease includes avoidance of fructose, galactose, sucrose, and lactose"
"Pompe disease is also known as glycogen storage disease type II"
"Pompe disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme lysosomal α-1,4-glucosidase (acid maltase)"
"Pompe disease is characterized by cardio-megaly"
"Pompe disease is a glycogen storage disease associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy"
"Pompe disease is associated with exercise intolerance"
"Cori disease is also known as glycogen storage disease type III"
"Cori disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme debranching enzyme (α-1,6-glucosidase & 4-α-d-glucanotransferase)"
"Cori disease is associated with accumulation of limit dextrin-like structures in the cytosol"
"Cori disease presents as a milder form of Von Gierke with normal blood lactate levels"
"Cori disease is characterized by functional::impaired or functional gluconeogenesis and impaired::impaired or functional glycogenolysis"
"Andersen disease is also known as glycogen storage disease type IV"
"Andersen disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme branching (not debranching!) enzyme"
"McArdle disease is also known as glycogen storage disease type V"
"McArdle disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme muscle glycogen phosphorylase (myophosphorylase)"
"McArdle disease is associated with painful muscle cramps that occur with strenuous exercise"
"McArdle disease may present with red-colored urine due to myoglobinuria"
"McArdle disease is associated with arrhythmia from electrolyte abnormalities"
"Patients with McArdle disease may experience the \second-wind\\" phenomenon during exercise due to increased muscular blood flow\""
"Hers disease is also known as glycogen storage disease type VI"
"Hers disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme hepatic glycogen phosphorylase"
"Hers disease is characterized by functional::impaired or functional gluconeogenesis and impaired::impaired or functional glycogenolysis"
"Hers disease classically presents with mild fasting hypoglycemia, hepatomegaly, and cirrhosis"
"Which glycogen storage disorder is associated with severe fasting hypoglycemia? Von Gierke disease"
"Which glycogen storage disorder is associated with cardiomegaly? Pompe disease"
"Which glycogen storage disorder is associated with accumulation of limit dextrin-like structures? Cori disease"
"Which glycogen storage disorder is associated with increased glycogen in muscle? McArdle disease"
"Gluconeogenesis occurs primarily in the liver, but necessary enzymes are also found in the kidney and intestinal epithelium"
"Muscle cannot participate in gluconeogenesis because it lacks the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase"
"Pyruvate may be converted to oxaloacetate via the enzyme pyruvate carboxylase"
"Pyruvate carboxylase requires ATP, biotin, and CO2"
"Acetyl-CoA is a(n) obligate activator of pyruvate carboxylase"
"Pyruvate carboxylase is regulated via positive feedback by acetyl-CoA"
"Where in the cell does conversion of pyruvate -> oxaloacetate take place? Mitochondria"
"After oxaloacetate has been formed from pyruvate (gluconeogenesis), it may exit the mitochondria and enter the cytosol via the malate shuttle"
"Oxaloacetate may be converted to phosphoenolpyruvate via the enzyme PEP carboxykinase"
"Conversion of oxaloacetate to phosphoenolpyruvate requires a molecule of GTP"
"PEP carboxykinase is regulated via positive feedback by glucagon and cortisol"
"Where in the cell does conversion of oxaloacetate -> PEP take place? Cytosol"
"Fructose-1,6-bisphosphate may be converted to fructose-6-phosphate via the enzyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase"
"Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase is regulated via positive feedback by citrate and ATP"
"Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase is regulated via negative feedback by fructose-2,6-bisphosphate and AMP"
"Where in the cell does conversion of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate -> fructose-6-phosphate take place? Cytosol"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of gluconeogenesis? Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase"
"Glucose-6-phosphate is converted to glucose via the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase"
"Where in the cell does conversion of glucose-6-phosphate -> glucose take place? Endoplasmic reticulum"
"Where does the energy to power gluconeogenesis come from in a starvation state? β-oxidation of fatty acids"
"What organ is responsible for metabolism of ethanol? Liver"
"Ethanol may be converted to acetaldehyde via the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase"
"Where in the cell does conversion of alcohol -> acetaldehyde take place? Cytosol"
"Acetaldehyde may be converted to acetate via the enzyme acetaldehyde dehydrogenase"
"Where in the cell does conversion of acetaldehyde -> acetate (ethanol metabolism) take place? Mitochondria"
"In the peroxisome::organelle, ethanol may be converted to acetaldehyde via the enzyme catalase"
"In liver microsomes, ethanol may be converted to acetaldehyde via the enzyme CYP2E1"
"Ethanol metabolism increases the ratio of NADH:NAD+ in the liver"
"What is the limiting reagent in ethanol metabolism? NAD+"
"Alcohol dehydrogenase operates via zero-order kinetics"
"Fomepizole inhibits the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase"
"Fomepizole is used as an antidote for methanol or ethylene glycol poisoning"
"Disulfiram inhibits the enzyme acetaldehyde dehydrogenase"
"Disulfiram exacerbates hangover symptoms, which is useful for the treatment of alcoholism"
"Many Asians::ethnicity are deficient of the ethanol metabolism enzyme acetaldehyde dehydrogenase"
"Increased NADH/NAD+ (e.g. due to ethanol) causes increased conversion of pyruvate -> lactate, thus increasing risk for lactic acidosis"
"Increased NADH/NAD+ (e.g. due to ethanol) causes increased conversion of oxaloacetate -> malate, thus preventing gluconeogenesis"
"Alcoholics commonly have fasting hypoglycemia::blood sugar"
"Thrombosis is the pathologic formation of an intravascular blood clot"
"Does thrombosis occur in arteries or veins? Both :)"
"Thrombosis most commonly occurs in the deep veins (DVT) of the leg below the knee"
"Thrombosis is characterized by lines of Zahn, which are alternating layers of platelets/fibrin and RBCs"
"Thrombosis is characterized by attachment to a vessel wall"
"The three major risk factors for thrombosis are disruption in blood flow (stasis), hypercoagulability, and endothelial cell damage (Virchow triad)"
"Stasis and turbulence of blood flow increases risk for thrombosis"
"Immobilization, cardiac wall dysfunction (arrhythmia, MI), and aneurysm increase risk of thrombosis due to disruption of blood flow"
"Endothelial cells prevent thrombosis by blocking exposure to underlying subendothelial collagen and tissue thromboplastin"
"Endothelial cells prevent thrombosis by producing prostacyclin (PGI2) and NO"
"Prostacyclin (PGI2) and NO from endothelial cells cause vaso-dilation"
"Prostacyclin (PGI2) and NO from endothelial cells cause inhibition of platelet aggregation"
"Endothelial cells prevent thrombosis by secreting heparin-like molecules, which augment antithrombin III (ATIII)"
"Antithrombin III inactivates::activates or inactivates thrombin and coagulation factors"
"Endothelial cells prevent thrombosis by secreting tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), which converts plasminogen to plasmin"
"Endothelial cells prevent thrombosis by producing thrombomodulin, which redirects thrombin to activate protein C"
"Which amino acid may cause endothelial cell damage when serum levels are elevated? Homocysteine"
"Vitamin B12 and folate deficiency result in mildly elevated homocysteine levels, increasing risk for thrombosis"
"Which vitamin deficiencies are associated with increased risk for thrombosis? Vitamin B12 and B9 (folate)::2"
"Cystathionine beta synthase (CBS) deficiency results in high homocysteine levels, increasing risk for thrombosis"
"A(n) hypercoagulable state is due to excessive procoagulant proteins or defective anticoagulant proteins"
"The classic presentation of a hypercoagulable state is recurrent DVTs or DVT at a young age"
"What is the mode of inheritance of protein C or S deficiency? Autosomal dominant"
"Protein C and S normally inactivate factors Va and VIIIa"
"Protein C deficiency causes increased risk of thrombotic skin necrosis with hemorrhage after warfarin administration"
"Warfarin (coumadin) is a drug that inhibits the enzyme epoxide reductase"
"In the initial stages of warfarin therapy, there is a temporary deficiency of protein C compared to factors II, VII, IX, and X"
"Why is there a relative protein C and S deficiency in the initial stages of warfarin therapy? Protein C and S have a shorter half-life than factors II, VII, IX, and X"
"Factor V Leiden is a mutated form of factor V that is resistant to degradation by activated protein C"
"Factor V Leiden is due to a point mutation near the cleavage site of factor V"
"What point mutation is the cause of Factor V Leiden? Arg506Gln (G -> A point mutation)"
"What is the most common inherited cause of hypercoagulable state in Caucasians? Factor V Leiden"
"Prothrombin 20210A is an inherited point mutation in the prothrombin gene that results in increased gene expression"
"Prothrombin 20210 mutation is a point mutation in the 3' untranslated region of the gene"
"ATIII deficiency decreases the protective effect of heparin-like molecules produced by the endothelium"
"What drug enhances activity of antithrombin? Heparin"
"In ATIII deficiency, PTT doesn't rise with standard heparin dosing"
"What coagulation factors are inhibited by antithrombin? 2, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12::6"
"What coagulation factors are the principal targets of antithrombin? IIa (thrombin) and Xa::2"
"What is the treatment for ATIII deficiency? High dose heparin, followed by warfarin::specific"
"What is the effect of oral contraceptives on coagulability? Increases coaguability"
"What is the effect of estrogen on production of coagulation factors? Increased production"
"Hyper-coagulable states are often complicated by recurrent pregnancy loss (women)"
"Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) may be administered clinically as a(n) thrombolytic"
"The three major risk factors for thrombosis are disruption in blood flow (stasis), hypercoagulability, and endothelial cell damage (Virchow triad)"
"The imaging test of choice for deep venous thrombosis is compression ultrasound"
"DVT is a blood clot within a deep vein, causing swelling, redness, warmth, and pain"
"What lab test is used clinically to rule out DVT (high sensitivity, low specificity)? D-dimer"
"Lower limb DVT may be associated with calf pain upon dorsiflexion of the foot (Homan sign)"
"Unfractioned or LMW heparin is used for prophylaxis and acute management of DVT"
"Oral anticoagulants (e.g. warfarin) are used for treatment and long-term prevention of DVT"
"A(n) thromboembolus is due to a thrombus that dislodges (most common type of embolus, >95%)"
"Atherosclerotic embolus is due to an atherosclerotic plaque that embolizes"
"Atherosclerotic embolus is characterized by the presence of cholesterol clefts in the embolus"
"Fat embolus is associated with bone fractures, particularly long bones and soft tissue trauma"
"When (chronologically) does a fat embolus typically occur following a bone fracture? While fracture still present or shortly after repair"
"What surgical procedure is associated with fat embolus? Liposuction"
"Fat emboli are characterized by a triad of: - hypoxemia - neurologic abnormalities - petechial rash overlying the chest"
"Fat emboli commonly presents with dyspnea::symptom due to fat, often with bone marrow elements, in the pulmonary vessels"
"Gas (air) embolus is classically seen in decompression sickness (Caisson disease)"
"Gas emboli occur due to bubbling of nitrogen gas out of blood, due to rapid ascent by a diver"
"Gas emboli present with joint and muscle pain ('bends') and respiratory symptoms ('chokes')"
"Chronic Caisson disease (decompression sickness) is characterized by multifocal ischemic necrosis of bone"
"What is the treatment for a gas (air) embolus? Hyperbaric O2"
"Gas emboli may be iatrogenic, secondary to laparoscopic procedures as air is pumped into the abdomen"
"Amniotic fluid emboli enter maternal circulation during labor or delivery"
"Amniotic fluid emboli are characterized by squamous cells and keratin debris in the embolus"
"Systemic embolism is usually due to a thromboembolus that arises from the left heart (most common)"
"The most common site for systemic emboli to lodge is in the lower extremities"
"Most pulmonary emboli arise via a thromboembolus from the proximal deep veins of the lower extremity"
"What is the most common symptom of pulmonary embolus? Most often clinically silent"
"Pulmonary emboli are usually clinically silent due to the dual blood supply of the lungs via the pulmonary and bronchial arteries"
"Pulmonary emboli are usually clinically silent as the embolus is usually small::size and self-resolves"
"Pulmonary infarction due to PE occurs if a large- or medium-sized artery is obstructed in patients with pre-existing cardiopulmonary compromise"
"Pulmonary infarction due to PE may present with pleuritic chest pain and pleural effusion"
"Pulmonary infarction due to PE may present with tachypnea::RR and tachycardia::HR"
"Pulmonary infarction due to PE may present with hemoptysis and sudden-onset dyspnea and chest pain"
"In a patient with a pulmonary emboli, V/Q lung scan shows mismatch due to abnormal perfusion"
"Pulmonary embolism's V/Q mismatch can lead to hypoxemia, triggering hyper-ventilation and subsequent respiratory alkalosis."
"Spiral CT (CT pulmonary angiography) is the imaging test of choice for pulmonary embolism"
"What may be seen on spiral CT in a patient with a pulmonary embolism? Vascular filling defects"
"Pulmonary embolism may present with elevated D-dimer"
"Gross examination of pulmonary infarction due to PE reveals a hemorrhagic, wedge-shaped infarct"
"The wedge-shaped infarct due to pulmonary embolism points towards::towards or away the area of occlusion"
"Large saddle pulmonary emboli may cause sudden death"
"Death from a saddle pulmonary emboli is due to electromechanical dissociation"
"Pulmonary hypertension may arise with chronic emboli that are reorganized over time"
"A pre-mortem thrombi is distinguishable from a post-mortem thrombi by the presence of lines of Zahn and attachment to a vessel wall"
"Rhinosinusitis (Sinusitis) is caused by obstruction of sinus drainage into the nasal cavity causing inflammation and pain over the affected area"
"Rhinosinusitis most commonly affects the maxillary sinus in adults"
"The maxillary sinus drains into the middle meatus"
"Rhinosinusitis is most commonly caused by a(n) viral::bacterial or viral upper respiratory infection (URI)"
"Superimposed bacterial infection on top of rhinosinusitis is most commonly due to S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae, and M. catarrhalis"
"Epistaxis is the medical term for nose bleed"
"Epistaxis most commonly occurs in the anterior segment of the nostril (Kiesselbach plexus)"
"Epistaxis may cause life-threatening hemorrhages if they occur in the posterior segment of the nostril (Woodruff's plexus)"
"What type of carcinoma are most head and neck cancers? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"What virus is oropharyngeal carcinoma associated with? HPV-16"
"Field cancerization is a process by which a carcinogen damages a wide mucosal area, causing multiple tumors"
"Interstitial restrictive lung diseases are characterized by decreased diffusing capacity"
"Interstitial restrictive lung diseases are characterized by increased A-a gradients"
"Extrapulmonary restrictive lung diseases are characterized by normal A-a gradients"
"Extrapulmonary restrictive lung diseases are associated with hypoventilation of peripheral::central or peripheral origin"
"Acute respiratory distress syndrome is a cause of interstitial restrictive lung disease"
"Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (hyaline membrane disease) is a cause of interstitial restrictive lung disease"
"What vasculitis may cause interstitial restrictive lung disease? Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener)"
"What anti-arrhythmic agent may cause interstitial restrictive lung disease? Amiodarone"
"What anti-neoplastic agents may cause interstitial restrictive lung disease? Bleomycin, busulfan, methotrexate, and procarbazine"
"Interstitial restrictive lung disease may be caused by pulmonary Langerhans cell histiocytosis (Eosinophilic granuloma)"
"Restrictive lung disease may be caused by poor structural apparatus, such as scoliosis and morbid obesity"
"Restrictive lung disease may be caused by poor muscular effort, such as polio, myasthenia gravis::paraneoplastic syndrome and Guillain-Barré syndrome"
"In obstructive::obstructive or restrictive lung disease, the flow volume loops shifts to the *left"
"In restrictive::obstructive or restrictive lung disease, the flow volume loops shifts to the right*"
"Sleep apnea is defined as repeated (>5x/hr) cessation of breathing > 10 seconds during sleep"
"Sleep apnea often presents clinically with daytime sleepiness"
"Sleep apnea is characterized by a(n) normal Pao2 and Paco2 during the day"
"Sleep apnea is associated with pulmonary hypertension due to nocturnal hypoxia"
"Obstructive sleep apnea is associated with difficult to manage systemic hypertension due to increased sympathetic tone"
"Sleep apnea is associated with arrhythmias, especially atrial fibrillation/flutter"
"What effect may sleep apnea secondarily have on RBC levels? Increased (polycythemia)"
"Obstructive sleep apnea is caused by respiratory effort against an airway obstruction"
"Obstructive sleep apnea is associated with obesity, loud snoring with periods of apnea, and daytime sleepiness"
"Obstructive sleep apnea may be caused by excess parapharyngeal tissue in adults::age group"
"Obstructive sleep apnea may be caused by adenotonsillar hypertrophy in children::age group"
"Treatment for obstructive sleep apnea includes weight loss, surgery, and CPAP"
"Central sleep apnea can occur due patients having marginal ventilation when awake (e.g. CNS disease, neuromuscular disease, severe kyphoscoliosis, heavy dose narcotics)"
"Obesity hypoventilation syndrome is a condition in which severely overweight people fail to breathe rapidly or deeply enough"
"Obesity hypoventilation syndrome is characterized by decreased Pao2 and increased Paco2 during sleep"
"Obesity hypoventilation (Pickwickian) syndrome is characterized by increased Paco2 during waking hours"
"Pleural effusion is the excess accumulation of fluid between lung pleural layers"
"Pleural effusion causes restricted lung inspiration::inspiration or expiration"
"Pleural effusion can be treated with thoracentesis to remove fluid"
"Transudative pleural effusion may be caused by increased hydrostatic pressure (e.g. HF)"
"Transudative pleural effusion may be caused by decreased oncotic pressure (e.g. nephrotic syndrome, cirrhosis)"
"Transudative pleural effusion is characterized by low protein content"
"Exudative pleural effusion is caused by states of increased vascular permeability (e.g. malignancy, pneumonia, trauma, collagen vascular disease)"
"Exudative pleural effusions must be drained due to risk of infection"
"What is an empyema? Pus in the pleural space"
"A(n) lymphatic pleural effusion is also known as chylothorax"
"Lymphatic pleural effusion occurs due to thoracic duct injury from trauma or malignancy"
"Lymphatic pleural effusion is characterized by a(n) milky-appearing fluid with increased triglycerides"
"Pleural effusion presents with decreased::increased or decreased breath sounds"
"Pleural effusion presents with dullness to percussion"
"Pleural effusion presents with decreased fremitus"
"In large pleural effusions, the trachea may deviate away from the side of the lesion"
"Atelectasis (bronchial / bronchiole obstruction) presents with decreased::increased or decreased breath sounds"
"Atelectasis (bronchial / bronchiole obstruction) presents with dullness to percussion"
"Atelectasis (bronchial / bronchiole obstruction) presents with decreased fremitus"
"In atelectasis, the trachea may deviate towards the side of the lesion"
"Consolidation (lobar pneumonia, pulmonary edema) may present with bronchial breath sounds along with: - Egophony - Bronchophony - Whispered Pectoriloquy"
"Consolidation (lobar pneumonia, pulmonary edema) may present with late inspiratory crackles"
"Consolidation (lobar pneumonia, pulmonary edema) presents with dullness to percussion"
"Consolidation (lobar pneumonia, pulmonary edema) presents with increased fremitus"
"Lung development begins with development of a(n) lung bud from the distal end of the respiratory diverticulum"
"What week does lung development begin? Week 4"
"The embryonic lung bud divides into two bronchial buds that branch off into bronchi"
"The embryonic period of lung development occurs from weeks 4 to 7"
"Errors at what stage of lung development can lead to the formation of a Tracheoesophageal Fistula? Embryonic Period (Weeks 4-7)"
"The pseudoglandular period of lung development occurs from weeks 5 to 17"
"During the pseudoglandular period (lung development), the endodermal tubules form the terminal bronchioles"
"During the pseudoglandular period of lung development, the bronchioles are surrounded by a(n) modest capillary network"
"Is respiration possible during the pseudoglandular period of lung development? No; incompatible with life"
"The canalicular period of lung development occurs from weeks 16 to 25"
"During the canalicular period (lung development), the terminal bronchioles form the respiratory bronchioles, which then form the alveolar ducts"
"During the canalicular period of lung development, the bronchioles are surrounded by a(n) prominent capillary network"
"During the canalicular period of lung development, airways increase in diameter"
"Respiration may be possible at week 25 (canalicular period), but it's better to wait until week 36"
"The saccular period of lung development occurs from weeks 26 to birth"
"During the saccular period (lung development), the alveolar ducts form the terminal sacs"
"During the saccular period (lung development), terminal sacs are separated by primary septa"
"In which period of lung development do pneumocytes develop? Saccular period (weeks 26 - birth)"
"The alveolar period of lung development occurs from weeks 36 to 8 years"
"During the alveolar period (lung development), the terminal sacs form the adult alveoli"
"Terminal sacs form into adult alveoli due to secondary septation"
"In utero, \breathing\\" occurs via aspiration and expulsion of amniotic fluid"
"Pulmonary hypoplasia is characterized by a poorly-developed bronchial tree with abnormal histology"
"Pulmonary hypoplasia is associated with bilateral renal agenesis (Potter sequence) and congenital diaphragmatic hernia"
"Congenital bronchogenic cysts are caused by abnormal budding of the foregut and dilation of terminal or large bronchi"
"Bronchogenic cyst is a congenital lung malformation that presents as discrete, round, sharply defined and air-filled densities on CXR"
"Type I pneumocytes line the alveoli (97% of alveolar surfaces)"
"Type I pneumocytes are squamous cells; thin for optimal gas diffusion"
"Type II pneumocytes are clustered, cuboidal::shape cells"
"Type II pneumocytes proliferate during lung damage"
"Club (Clara) cells are non-ciliated, low columnar/cuboidal cells with secretory granules in the lung"
"Club (clara) cells of the lung secrete a component of surfactant and act as reserve cells"
"Club (clara) cells of the lung may degrade toxins"
"The right lung has three lobes"
"The left lung has two lobes"
"Which lung (right or left) has a lingula? Left"
"The right lung is the more common site for inhaled foreign bodies because it has a wider and more vertical bronchus"
"In the right lung, the pulmonary artery is anterior to the bronchus"
"In the left lung, the pulmonary artery is superior to the bronchus"
"The IVC perforates the diaphragm at the level of T8"
"The esophagus and vagus nerve perforate the diaphragm at the level of T10"
"The aorta, thoracic duct, and azygos vein perforate the diaphragm at the level of T12"
"The diaphragm is innervated by the phrenic nerve"
"What are the roots of the phrenic nerve? C3, C4, C5"
"Pain from diaphragm irritation can be referred to the shoulder (C5) or trapezius ridge (C3, 4)"
"The trachea bifurcates at the level of T4"
"The common carotid artery bifurcates at the level of C4"
"Exudative pleural effusion is characterized by high protein content"
"Rank the following from highest to lowest prevalence: ASD, PDA, VSD VSD > ASD > PDA"
"What is the remnant of the mesonephric (wolffian) duct in females? Gartner duct"
"Most tissue histamine is sequestered inside the granules of mast cells and basophils"
"Once mast cells are sensitized by IgE antibodies on their surface, they burst open when exposed to appropriate antigens"
"Allergic inflammation is mediated by histamine, which acts on the H1 histamine receptor"
"What G protein is the H1 histamine receptor coupled to? Gq"
"What G protein is the H2 histamine receptor coupled to? Gs"
"H2 histamine receptors are located on gastric parietal cells and mediate gastric acid secretion"
"Histamine causes increased nasal and bronchial mucus production (H1 receptor activation)"
"Activation of the H1 histamine receptor may cause pain, pruritus, and vasodilation"
"Histamine increases vascular permeability, which is responsible for urticaria/hives (H1 receptor activation)"
"Histamine causes constriction of bronchial smooth muscle, especially in patients with asthma (H1 receptor activation)"
"Histamine functions as a neurotransmitter in the brain"
"In the brain, histamine may regulate sleep and arousal via its H1 receptor"
"Which generation of H1 histamine receptor antagonists are used to treat allergies? Both 1st and 2nd generation :)"
"What drug class do diphenhydramine and dimenhydrinate belong to? 1st generation H1 receptor antagonists"
"What drug class does chlorpheniramine belong to? 1st generation H1 receptor antagonist"
"What drug class do hydroxyzine, meclizine and promethazine belong to? 1st generation H1 receptor antagonists"
"Histamine mediates type 1 hypersensitivity reactions via activation of H1 receptors"
"1st generation H1 histamine receptor antagonists may be used to treat vestibular nausea and motion sickness"
"Do 1st generation H1 receptor antagonists cross the blood-brain-barrier? Yes (lipophilic)"
"Are 1st generation H1 receptor antagonists associated with drowsiness? Yes (cross BBB and have central effects)"
"1st generation H1 receptor antagonists, especially diphenhydramine, may be used as a(n) sleep aid"
"1st generation H1 receptor antagonists may antagonize muscarinic receptors, leading to significant anti-cholinergic effects"
"1st generation H1 receptor antagonists may acutely suppress the extrapyramidal side effects associated with certain anti-psychotic drugs"
"1st generation H1 receptor antagonists may stimulate appetite and cause weight gain due to anti-serotonergic effects"
"1st generation H1 receptor antagonists may cause dizziness::vestibular and hypotension::blood pressure due to anti-α1-adrenergic effects"
"1st generation H1 receptor antagonists may cause cognitive impairment and delirium, especially in the elderly"
"Adverse effects of 1st generation H1 receptor antagonists may be more common and more severe in elderly patients"
"What drug class does fexofenadine belong to? 2nd generation H1 receptor antagonist"
"What drug class does cetirizine belong to? 2nd generation H1 receptor antagonists"
"What drug class does loratadine belong to? 2nd generation H1 receptor antagonists"
"Do 2nd generation H1 receptor antagonists cross the blood-brain-barrier? No"
"Are 2nd generation H1 receptor antagonists associated with drowsiness? No (do not cross BBB therefore less sedation)"
"What are 2nd generation H1 receptor antagonists used to treat? Allergies"
"Asthmatic bronchoconstriction is mediated by inflammatory processes and parasympathetic::SNS or PNS? tone"
"Classic allergic asthma is mediated by IgE, produced in response to exposure to foreign antigens (i.e. dust, dander, pollen)"
"Once produced, IgE binds to high affinity (FcεRI)::specific receptors on mast cells in the airway mucosa"
"Selective β2 agonists, such as albuterol, treat bronchoconstriction in asthma"
"Albuterol, pirbuterol, and metaproterenol are short-acting β2 agonists"
"Terbutaline is a selective β2 agonist that treats bronchoconstriction in asthma"
"Short-acting β2 agonists (e.g. albuterol) are administered as metered-dose inhalers for acute relief of symptoms"
"More severe forms of asthma are associated with more frequent and severe symptoms, especially during nighttime::daytime or nighttime"
"Inhaled corticosteroids (e.g. budesonide, fluticasone) can be added as daily maintenance therapy for persistent asthma"
"Corticosteroids treat asthma by blocking inflammation and cellular infiltration"
"Inhaled corticosteroids (e.g. asthma therapy) inhibit the synthesis of virtually all cytokines"
"Inhaled corticosteroids inactivate NF-κB, the transcription factor that induces production of TNF-α and other inflammatory agents"
"Inhaled corticosteroids are the first line therapy for chronic asthma"
"What adverse effect is associated with inhaled corticosteroids? Oropharyngeal candidiasis"
"The risk of oropharyngeal candidiasis following inhaled corticosteroids is reduced by gargling water and spitting after each treatment"
"What drug class do fluticasone, budesonide, and beclomethasone belong to? Inhaled corticosteroids"
"A major step in the conversion of Arachidonic acids (AA) to leukotrienes is the conversion to 5-HPETE by the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase"
"Leukotriene B4 and 5HETE are potent chemoattractants for numerous inflammatory cells (particularly neutrophils)"
"Leukotrienes C4, D4 and E4 increase airway vascular permeability, mucus production, and bronchoconstriction (bronchospasm)"
"Leukotriene D4 is the most potent bronchoconstrictor"
"Leukotriene D4 exerts its effects by binding to the CysLT1 receptor"
"What drug class do montelukast and zafirlukast belong to? Leukotriene D4-receptor antagonists"
"What is the route of administration of leukotriene D4-receptor antagonists (e.g. montelukast, zafirlukast)? Oral administration"
"What is the effect of COX inhibition (e.g. aspirin) on production of leukotrienes? Increased"
"Montelukast and zafirlukast are especially effective at treating aspirin-induced asthma"
"What is the mechanism of action of zileuton (asthma treatment)? 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor"
"What adverse effect is associated with zileuton? Hepatotoxicity"
"Salmeterol and formoterol are long-acting β2 agonists"
"Long-acting β2 agonists are used for prophylaxis in moderate or severe persistent asthma"
"Long-acting β2 agonists (e.g. salmeterol) achieve their long duration due to high lipid solubility"
"Long-acting β2 agonists (e.g. salmeterol) are given as a daily inhaler and are always combined with a regimen of inhaled corticosteroids"
"Adverse effects of long-acting β2 agonists (e.g. salmeterol, formoterol) include tremor and arrhythmia"
"An increased dose of inhaled cortisteroids may be useful for treatment of moderate or severe persistent asthma"
"Theophylline is a methylxanthine that may be used for asthma therapy"
"Theophylline causes broncho-dilation by inhibiting phosphodiesterase"
"What effect does theophylline have on levels of cAMP? Increased cAMP"
"What is the route of administration of theophylline (asthma therapy)? Oral administration"
"Theophylline use is limited due to its narrow therapeutic index"
"Theophylline may have CNS side effects including nervousness and tremor"
"Theophylline can cause tachycardia::HR"
"Theophylline is metabolized by cytochrome P-450"
"Theophylline blocks the actions of adenosine (local metabolite)"
"Omalizumab is a monoclonal antibody directed against the Fc portion of IgE, preventing mast cell sensitization"
"Omalizumab is used in allergic asthma with increased IgE levels and resistance to inhaled steroids and long-acting β2 agonists"
"Cromolyn sodium is an asthma therapeutic that inhibits mast cell degranulation"
"What is the treatment for an acute, severe asthma exacerbation? Short-acting β2 agonist +/- systemic corticosteroids OR Epinephrine"
"In acute, severe asthma exacerbation, corticosteroids are administered IV or orally"
"Nebulized ipratropium is a muscarinic antagonist that may be used to treat acute, severe asthma exacerbation"
"Ipratropium is a competitive M3 receptor antagonist that is used to prevent bronchoconstriction in asthmatic and COPD patients"
"In addition to asthma, ipratropium may also be used to treat COPD"
"Tiotropium is a(n) long-acting M3 antagonist"
"What catecholamine may be administered to treat acute, severe asthma exacerbation? Epinephrine"
"Methacoline is a(n) M3 receptor agonist used in the bronchial challenge to help diagnose asthma"
"Adenosine causes broncho-constriction"
"Acetylcholine causes broncho-constriction"
"Theophylline causes broncho-dilation"
"Muscarinic antagonists cause broncho-dilation"
"Increased cAMP causes broncho-dilation"
"What classes of drugs are used to treat asthma by blocking inflammation (late response)? Inhaled corticosteroids, anti-leukotrienes, and anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibodies"
"What classes of drugs are used to treat asthma by blocking bronchoconstriction (early response)? β2 agonists, theophylline (methylxanthines), muscarinic antagonists"
"Guaifenesin is a(n) expectorant that thins respiratory secretions"
"Does guaifenesin suppress the cough reflex? No"
"N-acetylcysteine is a(n) mucolytic agent that liquifies mucus by disrupting disulfide bonds; useful in Chronic Bronchitis / COPD and Cystic Fibrosis patients"
"Pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine are α-adrenergic agonists that may be used as nasal decongestants"
"Pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine may be used clinically to reduce - hyperemia - edema - nasal congestion"
"Pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine may be used to open an obstructed eustachian tube"
"Pseudoephedrine is a decongestant that may be used illicitly to make methamphetamine"
"What adverse effect may pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine have on blood pressure? Increased BP (Hypertension)"
"Adverse effects associated with pseudoephedrine include - CNS stimulation - anxiety (mood altering)"
"Dextromethorphan is a synthetic codeine::which specific drug? analog that is used clinically as a(n) anti-tussive"
"Dextromethorphan is an anti-tussive that exerts its effects via antagonism of the NMDA glutamate receptor"
"Dextromethorphan is an antitussive that has mild opioid effects when used in excess and thus has mild abuse potential"
"What drug is given for overdose of dextromethorphan? Naloxone"
"Dextromethorphan may cause serotonin syndrome if combined with other serotonergic agents"
"Bosentan is a competitive endothelin-1 receptor antagonist used to treat pulmonary hypertension"
"Bosentan antagonizes endothelin-1 receptors, causing decreased pulmonary vascular resistance"
"What adverse effect is associated with bosentan? Hepatotoxicity (thus monitor LFTs)"
"Sildenafil inhibits PDE-5 and prolongs the vasodilatory effect of nitric oxide"
"In addition to erectile dysfunction, sildenafil may also be used to treat pulmonary hypertension"
"Epoprostenol and iloprost are synthetic forms of PGI2 (prostacylin)"
"Epoprostenol and iloprost inhibit platelet aggregation"
"Epoprostenol and iloprost have direct vaso-dilatory effects on pulmonary and systemic arterial vascular beds"
"Epoprostenol and iloprost may be used to treat pulmonary hypertension"
"Adverse effects of epoprostenol and iloprost include flushing and jaw pain"
"What is the mode of inheritance of cystic fibrosis? Autosomal recessive"
"Cystic fibrosis is due to a defect in the CFTR gene on chromosome 7"
"Cystic fibrosis most commonly occurs due to a(n) in-frame deletion of Phe508"
"What is the most common lethal, genetic disease in Caucasians? Cystic fibrosis"
"The CFTR gene encodes a(n) ATP-gated Cl- channel"
"The CFTR Cl- channel secretes::secretes or absorbs Cl- in the lungs and GI tract"
"The CFTR Cl- channel reabsorbs::secretes or absorbs Cl- in the sweat glands"
"The most common CFTR gene mutation (cystic fibrosis) results in a misfolded protein that is retained in the RER"
"In cystic fibrosis, increased intracellular Cl- results in compensatory increased Na+ reabsorption via epithelial Na+ channels"
"Increased Na+ reabsorption due to decreased Cl- secretion (cystic fibrosis) results in increased H2O reabsorption"
"Increased H2O reabsorption in CF results in abnormally thick mucus secreted into the lungs and GI tract"
"Increased Na+ reabsorption in cystic fibrosis causes a more negative transepithelial potential difference (TEPD)"
"Increased Cl- concentration (> 60 meQ/L) in sweat is diagnostic of cystic fibrosis"
"Cystic fibrosis may present with contraction::volume alkalosis::pH"
"How does cystic fibrosis affect K+ levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"What newborn screening blood test is used to screen for cystic fibrosis? Immunoreactive trypsinogen"
"A(n) increased immunoreactive trypsinogen may be indicative of cystic fibrosis"
"What organism is responsible for recurrent pulmonary infections in an infant cystic fibrosis patient? Staphylococcus aureus"
"What organism is responsible for recurrent pulmonary infections in an adult cystic fibrosis patient? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Chronic bronchitis and bronchiectasis in a cystic fibrosis patient leads to a(n) reticulonodular pattern on CXR"
"Cystic fibrosis may cause pancreatic insufficiency, resulting in malabsorption"
"Cystic fibrosis may cause malabsorption with steatorrhea::bowel condition and consequent fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies"
"Cystic fibrosis may cause biliary cirrhosis and/or liver disease"
"Cystic fibrosis may present as meconium ileus (10-20% of patients) in newborns due to abnormally thick (\inspissated\\") stool\""
"Cystic fibrosis may cause infertility in men due to congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens"
"Is spermatogenesis possible in a patient with cystic fibrosis? Yes"
"Cystic fibrosis may cause subfertility in women due to abnormally thick cervical mucus and amenorrhea"
"Cystic fibrosis may present with nasal polyps and nail clubbing"
"Treatment of cystic fibrosis includes replacement of pancreatic enzymes"
"Treatment of cystic fibrosis includes azithromycin, which is used as an anti-inflammatory agent"
"Treatment of cystic fibrosis includes hyper-tonic saline, which facilitates mucus clearing"
"Treatment of cystic fibrosis includes aerosolized dornase alfa (DNase), which hydrolyzes DNA in mucus causing decreased viscosity"
"Treatment of cystic fibrosis includes albuterol, a β2 agonist"
"Treatment of cystic fibrosis includes chest physiotherapy, which aids in mucus clearance"
"The site of synthesis, storage, and release of renin is the juxtaglomerular apparatus of the kidney"
"Renin is responsible for the conversion of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I"
"ACE is primarily located in the vascular endothelium of the lungs"
"Angiotensin I is converted to angiotensin II by ACE in the lungs (primarily)"
"Angiotensin II is a potent vaso-constrictor"
"What effect do normal levels of angiotensin II have on GFR? Increased GFR"
"Angiotensin II normally constricts the efferent arteriole of the kidney"
"Angiotensin II acts directly at the PCT::location to increase NaHCO3 reabsorption"
"Angiotensin II increases aldosterone release from the adrenal cortex"
"What effect does angiotensin II indirectly have on serum potassium levels? Decreased K+ (via aldosterone)"
"What drug class do captopril, enalapril, lisinopril, and ramipril belong to? ACE inhibitors"
"What effect do ACE inhibitors have on levels of angiotensin II? Decreased AT II"
"What effect do ACE inhibitors and ARBs have on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"ACE inhibitors and ARBs primarily cause dilation of the efferent arteriole of the kidney"
"ACE inhibitors and ARBs decrease sodium and bicarbonate reabsorption at the proximal convoluted tubule"
"ACE inhibitors and ARBs decrease aldosterone release from the adrenal cortex"
"ACE inhibitors can cause a(n) elevation in creatinine levels within the first few days of starting treatment"
"ACE inhibitors can cause significant hypotension which can lead to syncope in patients with high renin levels (e.g. heart failure, diuretic use)"
"What effect do ACE inhibitors have on levels of angiotensin I and renin? Increased levels"
"What effect may ACE inhibitors have on potassium levels? Increased (hyperkalemia)"
"ACE inhibitors are first line agents in the treatment of heart failure"
"Do ACE inhibitors reduce mortality in patients with heart failure and MI? Yes"
"ACE inhibitors decrease heart remodeling induced by high levels of angiotensin II (e.g. chronic hypertension)"
"ACE inhibitors are a first line agent in the treatment of primary hypertension"
"ACE inhibitors slow the progression of diabetic nephropathy"
"In diabetics, ACE inhibitors decrease intraglomerular pressure, thus slowing glomerular basement membrane thickening"
"ACE inhibitors may cause a(n) dry cough due to lung irritation, secondary to increased bradykinin"
"What effect do ACE inhibitors have on bradykinin activity? Increased"
"What effect do ARBs have on bradykinin activity? No effect"
"ACE inhibitors are contraindicated in patients with hereditary angioedema, which is characterized by a(n) C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency"
"ACE inhibitors may cause angioedema due to increased bradykinin"
"ACE inhibitors are contraindicated during pregnancy due to possible teratogenic effects"
"Coadministration of ACE inhibitors with NSAIDs can precipitate acute kidney injury"
"NSAIDs decrease prostaglandins, which normally dilate the afferent arterioles of the kidney"
"What effect may NSAIDs have on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"ACE inhibitors are contraindicated in bilateral renal artery stenosis"
"ACE inhibitors may precipitate acute renal failure in bilateral renal artery stenosis, causing significantly increased serum creatinine"
"What drug class do losartan, candesartan, and valsartan belong to? Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs)"
"ARBs selectively block binding of angiotensin II to the AT1 receptor"
"What effect may ARBs have on potassium levels? Increased (hyperkalemia)"
"ARBs are contraindicated during pregnancy due to possible teratogenic effects"
"What effect may ARBs have on blood pressure? Decreased (hypotension)"
"Aliskiren is a direct renin inhibitor"
"What effect may aliskiren have on potassium levels? Increased (hyperkalemia)"
"What effect may aliskiren have on blood pressure? Decreased (hypotension)"
"What effect does aliskiren have on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"Aliskiren is relatively contraindicated in patients already taking ACE inhibitors or ARBs"
"What is the primary clinical use for aliskiren? Treatment of hypertension"
"The kidneys lie in the retroperitoneal cavity of the body"
"The outer region of the kidney is the cortex"
"The central region of the kidney is the medulla"
"The innermost tip of the kidney medullary pyramid is called the papilla"
"The medullary pyramids (papillae) of the kidney empty into major and minor calyces"
"The major and minor calyces of the kidney drain into the renal pelvis, which is the dilated proximal part of the ureter"
"The functional units of the kidney are nephrons, which consist of a(n) glomerulus and a(n) renal tubule"
"Glomerular capillaries are surrounded by Bowman's capsule (space), which is continuous with the first portion of the nephron"
"Following Bowman's capsule, glomerular filtrate enters the proximal convoluted tubule"
"Following the proximal convoluted tubule, glomerular filtrate enters the proximal straight tubule"
"Following the proximal straight tubule, glomerular filtrate enters the thin descending limb (loop of Henle)"
"Following the thin descending limb, glomerular filtrate enters the thin ascending limb (loop of Henle)"
"Following the thin ascending limb, the glomerular filtrate enters the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle)"
"The thin descending limb, thin ascending limb, and thick ascending limb of the kidney form the loop of Henle"
"Following the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle), glomerular filtrate enters the distal convoluted tubule"
"At the beginning of the distal convoluted tubule, glomerular filtrate passes the macula densa"
"Following the distal convoluted tubule, glomerular filtrate enters the collecting ducts"
"Superficial cortical nephrons have glomeruli located in the outer cortex and have a relatively short loop of Henle"
"Juxtamedullary nephrons have glomeruli located near the corticomedullary border and have a relatively long loop of Henle"
"Juxtamedullary nephrons have larger::size glomeruli and thus higher GFR than superficial cortical nephrons"
"Blood enters the kidney via a(n) renal artery, which branches into segmental arteries"
"Segmental arteries of the kidney further branch into interlobar arteries"
"Interlobar arteries of the kidney further branch into arcuate arteries"
"Arcuate arteries of the kidney further branch into interlobular arteries"
"The interlobular arteries of the kidney divide into the afferent arterioles"
"Blood enters the glomerular capillaries via the afferent arterioles"
"Blood exits the glomerular capillaries via the efferent arterioles"
"Blood from the efferent arterioles is delivered to the peritubular capillaries"
"In the juxtamedullary nephrons, the peritubular capillaries give off vasa recta (straight arterioles) which run parallel to the loop of Henle"
"Which kidney is taken during donor transplantation? Why? Left; has a longer renal vein"
"In females, the ureters pass under the uterine artery"
"Gynecologic procedures, such as ligation of uterine or ovarian vessels, may damage the ureter"
"In males, the ureters pass under the vas deferens"
"On average, total body water (TBW) is 60% of body weight"
"What gender is associated with a greater % total body water? Males (due to less adipose tissue)"
"On average, intracellular fluid is 40% of body weight"
"On average, extracellular fluid is 20% of body weight"
"Extracellular fluid is divided into interstitial fluid (75% of ECF) and plasma (25% of ECF)"
"In addition to ICF and ECF, a small transcellular fluid compartment consists of cerebrospinal, pleural, peritoneal, and digestive fluids"
"Intracellular fluid comprises two-thirds of total body water"
"The major cations of intracellular fluid are K+ and Mg2+"
"The major anions of intracellular fluid are proteins and organic phosphates"
"Extracellular fluid comprises one-third of total body water"
"The major cation of extracellular fluid is Na+"
"The major anions of extracellular fluid are Cl- and HCO3- (bicarbonate)"
"Plasma is the aqueous component of blood in which the blood cells are suspended"
"Plasma constitutes 55% of blood volume, while RBCs constitute the remaining 45%"
"The percent of blood volume occupied by RBCs is called the hematocrit, which averages 45%"
"Interstitial fluid is an ultrafiltrate of plasma"
"Plasma contains more proteins than interstitial fluid"
"Plasma volume can be measured by using radiolabeled albumin or Evan's blue"
"Measure Extracellular fluid volume with inulin or mannitol"
"Total body water volume can be measured using D2O or tritiated water (THO)"
"The volume of a body fluid compartment depends on the amount of solute it contains"
"Osmolarity is the concentration of osmotically active particles, expressed in mOsm/L"
"Plasma osmolarity may be estimated by Posm = (2 * Na+) + (Glucose/18) + (BUN/2.8)"
"In the steady state, intracellular osmolarity is equal to extracellular osmolarity (less than, greater than, or equal to)"
"Solutes such as NaCl and mannitol do not cross cell membranes and are thus confined to the extracellular fluid compartment"
"Volume contraction refers to a decrease in ECF volume"
"Volume expansion refers to an increase in ECF volume"
"A hyper-osmotic disturbance refers to an increase in ECF osmolarity"
"A hypo-osmotic disturbance refers to an decrease in ECF osmolarity"
"How does ECF volume change with diarrhea? Decreased"
"How does ICF volume change with diarrhea? No change"
"How does osmolarity change with diarrhea? No change"
"Diarrhea is a cause of iso-osmotic volume contraction"
"How does plasma protein concentration change with diarrhea? Increased"
"How does hematocrit change with isosmotic diarrhea? Increased"
"How does ECF volume change with sweating in a desert? Decreased"
"How does ICF volume change with sweating in a desert? Decreased"
"How does osmolarity change with sweating in a desert? Increased (sweat is hypo-osmotic)"
"Sweating in a desert is a cause of hyper-osmotic volume contraction"
"How does plasma protein concentration change with sweating in a desert? Increased"
"How does hematocrit change with sweating in a desert? No change"
"How does ECF volume change with adrenal insufficiency? Decreased"
"How does ICF volume change with hyposmotic volume contraction (e.g. adrenal insufficiency)? Increased"
"How does osmolarity change with adrenal insufficiency? Decreased (loss of Na+ due to lack of aldosterone)"
"Adrenal insufficiency is a cause of hypo-osmotic volume contraction"
"How does plasma protein concentration change with hyposmotic volume contraction (e.g. adrenal insufficiency)? Increased"
"How does hematocrit change with hyposmotic volume contraction (e.g. adrenal insufficiency)? Increased"
"How does ECF volume change with isotonic NaCl infusion? Increased"
"How does ICF volume change with isotonic NaCl infusion? No change"
"How does osmolarity change with isotonic NaCl infusion? No change"
"Isotonic NaCl infusion is a cause of iso-osmotic volume expansion"
"How does plasma protein concentration change with isotonic NaCl infusion? Decreased"
"How does hematocrit change with isotonic NaCl infusion? Decreased"
"How does ECF volume change with excessive NaCl intake? Increased"
"How does ICF volume change with excessive NaCl intake? Decreased"
"How does osmolarity change with excessive NaCl intake? Increased"
"Excessive NaCl intake is a cause of hyper-osmotic volume expansion"
"How does plasma protein concentration change with excessive NaCl intake? Decreased"
"How does hematocrit change with excessive NaCl intake? Decreased"
"How does ECF volume change with SIADH? Increased"
"How does ICF volume change with hyposmotic volume expansion (e.g. SIADH)? Increased"
"How does osmolarity change with SIADH? Decreased (hyposmolarity)"
"SIADH is a cause of hypo-osmotic volume expansion"
"How does plasma protein concentration change with hyposmotic volume expansion (e.g. SIADH)? Decreased"
"How does hematocrit change with hyposmotic volume expansion (e.g. SIADH)? No change"
"Normal serum osmolality is ~ 290 mOsm/kg H2O"
"Renal clearance is the volume of plasma completely cleared of a substance by the kidneys per unit time"
"What equation is used to calculate renal clearance? Cx = UxV / Px"
"The renal clearance of albumin is normally zero because albumin is not filtered across glomerular capillaries"
"If Cx < GFR, there is net tubular reabsorption of X"
"If Cx > GFR, there is net secretion of X"
"The kidneys receive approximately 25% of the cardiac output"
"In both the afferent and efferent arterioles of the kidney, SNS activity causes vaso-constriction"
"What type of adrenergic receptor is found on the renal afferent and efferent arterioles? α1-adrenergic receptors"
"Which arterioles of the kidney (afferent or efferent) have more α1 receptors? Afferent arterioles"
"SNS activity and catecholamines primarily cause vasoconstriction of the renal afferent arterioles"
"What effect does SNS activity have on renal blood flow and GFR? Decreased RBF/GFR"
"In both the afferent and efferent arterioles of the kidney, angiotensin II activity causes vaso-constriction"
"Which arterioles of the kidney (afferent or efferent) are more sensitive to angiotensin II? Efferent arterioles"
"Low (normal) levels of angiotensin II primarily causes vasoconstriction of the renal efferent arterioles"
"What effect does angiotensin II activity have on renal blood flow? Decreased RBF"
"What effect does normal levels of angiotensin II have on GFR? Increased GFR"
"What effect do high levels of angiotensin II have on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"Atrial natriuretic peptide causes vaso-dilation of afferent arterioles and, to a lesser extent, vaso-constriction of efferent arterioles"
"The dilatory effect of ANP on afferent arterioles is greater than the constrictor effect on efferent arterioles"
"What effect does ANP have on renal blood flow and GFR? Increased RBF/GFR"
"Prostaglandins E2 and I2 cause vaso-dilation of both afferent and efferent arterioles in the kidney"
"What drug class inhibits synthesis of prostaglandins and thus interferes with the protective effect of PGs on renal function? NSAIDs"
"At low levels, dopamine causes vaso-dilation of renal arterioles and interlobular arteries"
"Renal blood flow (RBF) remains relatively constant between blood pressure ranges of 80 to 200 mmHg"
"Renal autoregulation is primarily controlled by changing vascular resistance of the afferent arteriole"
"The myogenic mechanism of renal autoregulation states that renal afferent arterioles contract in response to increased stretch on the arterial wall"
"The tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism of renal autoregulation states that renal afferent arterioles contract in response to vasoactive substances released by the macula densa"
"Para-aminohippuric acid (PAH) clearance can be used to calculate effective renal plasma flow (eRPF) because it is both filtered and secreted"
"Effective RPF (eRPF) under-estimates true renal plasma flow slightly (~10%)"
"Effective renal plasma flow may be estimated using the equation: eRPF = CPAH = [U]PAH * V / [P]PAH"
"Renal blood flow (RBF) is calculated using the equation: RBF = RPF / (1 - Hct)"
"The fraction of blood volume occupied by plasma = 1 - hematocrit"
"The glomerular filtration barrier is responsible for filtering the plasma according to the properties of a compounds size and net charge"
"One component of the glomerular filtration barrier is a(n) endothelial cell layer with large fenestrations"
"One component of the glomerular filtration barrier is a(n) basement membrane"
"One component of the glomerular filtration barrier is a layer of epithelial cells, called podocytes, which attach to the basement membrane by foot processes"
"Does the basement membrane of the glomerular filtration barrier normally permit plasma proteins? No"
"The basement membrane of the glomerular filtration barrier contains heparan sulfate, which acts as a(n) negative charge barrier"
"Are small, charged solutes (e.g. Na+, K+, Cl-) affected by the negatively charged glomerular filtration barrier? No"
"Are large, charged solutes (e.g. plasma proteins) affected by the negatively charged glomerular filtration barrier? Yes"
"In nephrotic syndrome, the charge barrier of the glomerular filtration barrier is lost"
"Loss of the charge barrier of the glomerular filtration barrier (e.g. nephrotic syndrome) results in protein-uria"
"The Starling equation may be used to calculate glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and states that GFR = Kf [(PGC - PBS) - πGC]"
"What does Kf represent in regards to GFR (fluid exchange)? Permeability to water"
"What two factors contribute to the Kf of a glomerular capillary? Water permeability and total surface area"
"What does PGC represent in regards to GFR (fluid exchange)? Glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure"
"What does PBS represent in regards to GFR (fluid exchange)? Bowman's space hydrostatic pressure"
"What does πGC represent in regards to GFR (fluid exchange)? Glomerular capillary oncotic pressure"
"The oncotic pressure of Bowman's space (πBS) normally equals zero"
"How does the glomerular capillary hydrostatic pressure (PGC) change along the length of the glomerular capillaries? Remains constant"
"How does the glomerular capillary oncotic pressure (πGC) change along the length of the glomerular capillaries? Increases"
"At the end of a glomerular capillary, the ultrafiltration pressure equals zero, a point called filtration equilibrium"
"Which Starling force changes, causing filtration equilbrium at the end of a glomerular capillary? Capillary oncotic pressure (πC)"
"What effect does afferent arteriolar constriction have on RPF? Decreased"
"What effect does afferent arteriolar constriction have on GFR? Decreased"
"What effect does efferent arteriolar constriction have on RPF? Decreased"
"What effect does efferent arteriolar constriction have on GFR? Increased"
"What effect does increased plasma protein concentration (πGC) have on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"What effect does increased plasma protein concentration (πGC) have on RPF? No change"
"What effect does decreased plasma protein concentration (πGC) have on GFR? Increased GFR"
"What effect does decreased plasma protein concentration (πGC) have on RPF? No change"
"What effect does constriction of the ureter have on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"What effect does constriction of the ureter have on RPF? No change"
"Inulin clearance can be used to calculate GFR because it is freely filtered and is not reabsorbed or secreted"
"Glomerular filtration rate may be estimated using the equation: GFR = Cinulin = [U]inulin * V / [P]inulin"
"What is the approximate normal GFR (mL/min)? 100 mL/min"
"In addition to inulin, creatinine clearance may also be used to estimate GFR"
"Creatinine clearance slightly over-estimates GFR because creatinine is moderately secreted by renal tubules"
"Volume contraction results in decreased renal perfusion with consequent decreased GFR, thus increasing nitrogenous waste products in the blood (prerenal azotemia)"
"In prerenal azotemia, decreased GFR causes increased levels of BUN and serum creatinine"
"In prerenal azotemia, there is a(n) increase in the ratio of BUN/creatinine to more than 20"
"The filtration fraction may be calculated using the equation FF = GFR / RPF"
"The value for the filtration fraction is normally about 0.20 (20%)"
"Increased filtration fraction causes increased protein concentration (and thus πc) of peritubular capillary blood"
"What effect does afferent arteriolar constriction have on filtration fraction? No change"
"What effect does efferent arteriolar constriction have on filtration fraction? Increased FF"
"What effect does increased plasma protein concentration (πGC) have on filtration fraction? Decreased FF"
"What effect does decreased plasma protein concentration (πGC) have on filtration fraction? Increased FF"
"What effect does constriction of the ureter have on filtration fraction? Decreased FF"
"What effect does dehydration have on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"What effect does dehydration have on RPF? Decreased RPF"
"What effect does dehydration have on filtration fraction? Increased FF"
"Fluid exits PCT cells and enters the peritubular capillaries via the process of reabsorption"
"Fluid exits peritubular capillaries and enters PCT cells via the process of secretion"
"The sum of filtration, secretion, and reabsorption is excretion"
"The amount of substance filtered in Bowman's space per unit time is called the filtered load"
"Filtered load (mg/min) can be calculated using the equation: Filtered load = GFR (mL/min) * [Px] (mg/mL)"
"Excretion rate can be calculated using the equation: Excretion rate = V * [U]x"
"If the filtered load is less than the excretion rate, there has been net secretion::reabsorption or secretion"
"If the filtered load is greater than the excretion rate, there has been net reabsorption::reabsorption or secretion"
"The rate of reabsorption is equal to filtered load - excretion rate"
"The rate of secretion is equal to excretion rate - filtered load"
"Glucose is reabsorbed in the early PCT by Na+/glucose (SGLT) cotransporters"
"What type of transport mechanism is Na+/glucose cotransport? Secondary active transport"
"Glucose in the cells of the PCT enter the peritubular capillary blood through GLUT1 and GLUT2 transporters"
"What type of transport mechanism is glucose transport through GLUT1 and GLUT2? Facilitated diffusion"
"Glucose at a normal plasma level (60 - 120 mg/dL) is completely reabsorbed in the PCT"
"The plasma concentration at which glucose is first excreted in the urine is called threshold"
"In adults, glucosuria begins (threshold) at a plasma glucose of ~ 200 mg/dL"
"The point at which all glucose transporters in the PCT are fully saturated is known as the transport maximum (Tm)"
"In adults, all glucose transporters are fully saturated (Tm) at a plasma glucose of ~ 350 mg/dL"
"All glucose transporters are fully saturated (Tm) at a rate of ~ 375 mg/min"
"The region of substance clearance (e.g. glucose) between threshold and Tm is known as splay"
"The phenomenon of splay occurs due to heterogeneity of the nephrons"
"What pathology is commonly associated with glucosuria? Diabetes mellitus"
"What non-pathologic state is commonly associated with glucosuria? Pregnancy"
"Normal pregnancy may decrease the ability of the PCT to reabsorb glucose and amino acids by increasing GFR"
"In the proximal convoluted tubule of the nephron, 50% of the filtered urea is reabsorbed by simple diffusion"
"In the thin descending limb (Henle's loop) of the nephron, urea is secreted by simple diffusion"
"The thick ascending limb, distal tubule, and cortical/outer medullary collecting ducts are impermeable to urea (permeable or impermeable)"
"In the inner medullary collecting ducts, 70% of the filtered urea is reabsorbed via facilitated diffusion (if ADH is present)"
"In the inner medullary collecting ducts, urea is reabsorbed by the UT1 transporter, which is activated by ADH"
"At acidic urine pH, the HA form of a weak acid exists, thus decreasing excretion"
"At alkaline urine pH, the A- form of a weak acid exists, thus increasing excretion"
"At alkaline urine pH, the B form of a weak base exists, thus decreasing excretion"
"At acidic urine pH, the BH+ form of a weak base exists, thus increasing excretion"
"With regards to renal physiology, what does [TF] stand for? Concentration in tubular fluid"
"The [TF/P]x ratio compares the concentration of a substance in tubular fluid with its concentration in systemic plasma"
"For any freely filtered substance, the [TF/P]x at Bowman's space is equal to 1.0"
"[TF/P]x = 1 when the solute and water are reabsorbed at the same rate"
"[TF/P]x < 1 when the solute is reabsorbed more quickly than water"
"[TF/P]x > 1 when the solute is reabsorbed less quickly than water"
"[TF/P]x > 1 when the solute is secreted into the tubular fluid"
"The [TF/P]inulin ratio is used as a marker for water reabsorption along the nephron"
"Tubular inulin increases in concentration along the PCT as a result of water reabsorption"
"The fraction of filtered water absorbed may be measured using the equation: "
"The [TF/P]x/[TF/P]inulin ratio gives the fraction of filtered load remaining of a solute at any point along the nephron"
"The bulk of Na+ reabsorption occurs in the proximal convoluted tubule (67%)"
"The proximal tubule is characterized by iso-osmotic reabsorption"
"HCO3- is the major anion reabsorbed in the early PCT"
"Usually, 100% of glucose and amino acids are reabsorbed in the early PCT"
"Phosphate is primarily reabsorbed in the early PCT through Na+-phosphate cotransport"
"Citrate is primarily reabsorbed in the early PCT through Na+-citrate cotransport"
"Lactate is primarily reabsorbed in the early PCT through Na+-lactate cotransport"
"H+ is secreted into the lumen of the early PCT via the Na+-H+ exchanger, where it combines with filtered HCO3-, forming H2CO3"
"In the lumen of the early PCT, H2CO3 is converted into H2O and CO2 via the enzyme carbonic anhydrase"
"The H2O and CO2 in the lumen of the early PCT (from H2CO3) is reabsorbed into::excreted out or reabsorbed into the cell"
"Inside the cells of the early PCT, H2O and CO2 form H2CO3, which then dissociates into H+ and HCO3-"
"The HCO3- inside the cells of the early PCT (from H2CO3) is reabsorbed (into the blood) via facilitated diffusion"
"The H+ inside the cells of the early PCT (from H2CO3) is re-secreted (into the lumen) by the Na+-H+ exchanger"
"Na+-glucose and Na+-amino acid cotransport create a lumen-negative potential difference across cells of the early PCT"
"Cl- is the major anion reabsorbed in the late PCT of the nephron"
"Cl- is partially reabsorbed via the Cl--formate- anion exchanger in the luminal membrane of the late PCT"
"In the late PCT, Na+ reabsorption may occur through the Na+-H+ exchange"
"What is the driving force for reabsorption of NaCl in the late PCT? High Cl- gradient"
"Cl- is partially reabsorbed by diffusion through tight junctions between cells of the late PCT"
"The major solutes absorbed in the proximal tubule are NaCl and NaHCO3"
"Does solute follow water reabsorption, or does water follow solute reabsorption? Water follows solute"
"How is Na+ pumped out of the cell of the proximal tubule and into the blood? Na+-K+-ATPase pump"
"What is the major Starling force driving reabsorption into the peritubular capillaries of the proximal tubule? High capillary oncotic pressure (πC)"
"The [TF/P]Na and [TF/P]osmolarity ratios both remain at 1 over the course of the PCT"
"The [TF/P]Cl ratio initially increases over the course of the PCT"
"The [TF/P]inulin ratio increases over the course of the PCT"
"The [TF/P]HCO3 ratio decreases over the course of the PCT"
"The [TF/P]glucose and [TF/P]AA ratios decrease over the course of the PCT"
"The major regulatory mechanism of the proximal tubule is glomerulotubular balance"
"Glomerulotubular balance describes a balance between filtration in the glomerulus and reabsorption in the proximal tubule"
"ECF volume expansion produces a(n) increase in capillary hydrostatic pressure (Pc)"
"The effects of ECF volume expansion on the Starling forces result in decreased fractional reabsorption of isosmotic fluid in the proximal tubule"
"ECF volume contraction produces a(n) decrease in capillary hydrostatic pressure (Pc)"
"The effects of ECF volume contraction on the Starling forces result in increased fractional reabsorption of isosmotic fluid in the proximal tubule"
"ECF volume contraction produces a(n) increase in capillary oncotic pressure (πC)"
"ECF volume expansion produces a(n) decrease in capillary oncotic pressure (πC)"
"The thin descending limb (loop of Henle) is permeable to water"
"The thin descending limb (loop of Henle) is impermeable to Na+"
"In the thin descending limb (loop of Henle), tubular fluid becomes progressively hyper-osmotic as it descends"
"The thin descending limb absorbs water passively::actively or passively"
"The thin and thick ascending limbs (loop of Henle) are impermeable to water"
"The thin and thick ascending limbs (loop of Henle) are permeable to Na+"
"In the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle), tubular fluid becomes progressively hypo-osmotic as it ascends"
"The thin ascending limb absorbs Na+ passively::actively or passively"
"The thick ascending limb absorbs Na+ actively::actively or passively"
"The thick ascending limb (of Henle) normally reabsorbs approximately 10-20% of the filtered Na+"
"The Na+ reabsorption mechanism of the thick ascending limb is load-dependent (increased Na+ delivery causes increased reabsorption)"
"Na+ is reabsorbed in the thick ascending limb (of Henle) via the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter in the luminal membrane"
"In addition to Na+, what two other ions are reabsorbed through the lumen of the thick ascending limb? K+, Cl- (Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter)"
"What type of transport mechanism is Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter? Secondary active transport"
"How is Na+ extruded out of the cell of the thick ascending limb and into the blood? Na+-K+-ATPase pump"
"How is Cl- extruded out of the cell of the thick ascending limb and into the blood? Diffusion down its electrochemical gradient (via membrane channels)"
"How is K+ extruded out of the cell of the thick ascending limb and into the blood? Diffusion down its electrochemical gradient (via membrane channels)"
"Some K+ in the cells of the thick ascending limb diffuse back into the lumen, creating a lumen positive potential difference"
"The thick ascending limb (of Henle) is the site of action of loop diuretics"
"Loop diuretics attach to the Cl--binding site of the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter"
"Travel through the thick ascending limb (of Henle) results in dilution::concentration or dilution of the tubular fluid"
"After the thick ascending limb, the [TF/P]Na and [TF/P]osmolarity are both < 1.0"
"The early DCT normally reabsorbs approximately 5% of the filtered Na+"
"Na+ is reabsorbed in the early DCT via the Na+-Cl- cotransporter in the luminal membrane"
"In addition to Na+, what other ion is reabsorbed through the lumen of the early DCT? Cl- (Na+-Cl- cotransporter)"
"How is Na+ extruded out of the cell of the early DCT and into the blood? Na+-K+-ATPase pump"
"How is Cl- extruded out of the cell of the early DCT and into the blood? Diffusion down its electrochemical gradient (via membrane channels)"
"The early DCT is always impermeable::permeability to water"
"Travel through the early DCT results in dilution::concentration or dilution of the tubular fluid"
"The early DCT is the site of action of thiazide diuretics"
"Thiazide diuretics attach to the Cl--binding site of the Na+-Cl- cotransporter"
"What are the two main cell types of the late distal tubule and collecting duct? Principal cells, α-intercalated cells"
"The principal cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct reabsorb Na+ and H2O"
"The principal cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct secrete K+"
"The α-intercalated cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct reabsorb K+"
"The α-intercalated cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct secrete H+"
"The late distal convoluted tubule and collecting ducts normally reabsorb approximately 3% of the filtered Na+"
"Na+ is reabsorbed in the principal cells of the late DCT and collecting duct via the epithelial Na+ channels in the luminal membrane"
"How is Na+ extruded out of the cells of the late DCT & collecting duct and into the blood? Na+-K+-ATPase pump"
"Aldosterone leads to increased epithelial Na+ channel (ENaC) activity"
"Aldosterone leads to increased apical K+ conductance"
"In principal cells, increased ENaC activity (due to aldosterone) causes increased lumen negativity::charge"
"Increased lumen negativity in principal cells causes increased K+ secretion"
"K+-sparing diuretics inhibit Na+ reabsorption in the principal cells of the late DCT and collecting ducts"
"In response to increased Na+ intake (and ECF volume), there is decreased sympathetic activity"
"In response to increased Na+ intake (and ECF volume), there is increased ANP activity"
"In response to increased Na+ intake (and ECF volume), there is decreased peritubular capillary oncotic pressure"
"In response to increased Na+ intake (and ECF volume), there is decreased renin-angiotensin-aldosterone activity"
"Insulin causes K+ to shift into cells, causing hypokalemia"
"How does insulin cause K+ to shift into cells? Increased Na+-K+ ATPase"
"Insulin deficiency (e.g. T1DM) causes K+ to shift out of cells, causing hyperkalemia"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with hypokalemia? Alkalosis"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with hyperkalemia? Acidosis"
"Acid-base disturbances may affect serum K+ levels via altering activity and directionality of the H+-K+ exchanger"
"Alkalosis may cause K+ to shift into cells, causing hypokalemia"
"Acidosis may cause K+ to shift out of cells, causing hyperkalemia"
"α-adrenergic agonists cause K+ to shift out of cells, causing hyperkalemia"
"β-adrenergic antagonists cause K+ to shift out of cells, causing hyperkalemia"
"β-adrenergic agonists cause K+ to shift into cells, causing hypokalemia"
"α-adrenergic antagonists cause K+ to shift into cells, causing hypokalemia"
"How do β-adrenergic agonists cause K+ to shift into cells? Increased Na+-K+ ATPase activity"
"Hyper-osmolarity may cause K+ to shift out of cells, causing hyperkalemia"
"Hypo-osmolarity may cause K+ to shift into cells, causing hypokalemia"
"Lysis of cells may cause K+ to shift out of cells, causing hyperkalemia"
"Exercise may cause K+ to shift out of cells"
"The bulk of K+ reabsorption occurs in the proximal convoluted tubule (67%)"
"Approximately 20% of K+ reabsorption occurs in the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle)"
"Which areas of the nephron are responsible for adjustments of K+ excretion? Late distal tubule, Collecting ducts::2"
"When a person is on a low K+ diet, K+ can be reabsorbed in the terminal nephron segments by the α-intercalated cells"
"K+ reabsorption in the α-intercalated cells occurs through the H+-K+ ATPase pump"
"What type of transport mechanism is the H+-K+ ATPase? Primary active transport"
"When a person has high K+ levels, K+ can be secreted in the terminal nephron segments by the principal cells"
"The magnitude of K+ secretion in the principal cells is determined by the size of the electrochemical gradient for K+ across the luminal membrane"
"On a high K+ diet, K+ secretion increases"
"On a low K+ diet, K+ secretion is decreased"
"Hyperaldosteronism increases K+ secretion and causes hypo-kalemia"
"Hypoaldosteronism decreases K+ secretion and causes hyper-kalemia"
"Thiazide and loop diuretics increase K+ excretion and cause hypo-kalemia"
"Thiazide and loop diuretics increase delivery of Na+ to principal cells"
"Increased Na+ delivery to principal cells (e.g. thiazide and loop diuretics) causes increased K+ secretion"
"Thiazide and loop diuretics increase flow rate through the late DCT and collecting duct, thus decreasing luminal K+ concentration"
"K+-sparing diuretics decrease K+ secretion and cause hyper-kalemia"
"Increased luminal anions (e.g. HCO3-) may cause a(n) increase in K+ secretion and thus hypo-kalemia"
"After the α subunit is bound by GTP (cellular signaling), the α-GTP subunit detaches from its respective G protein (i.e. Gs, Gi, or Gq)"
"85% of the filtered phosphate is reabsorbed in the proximal tubule"
"Un-reabsorbed phosphate (15%) serves as a urinary buffer for H+"
"PTH is a hormone that inhibits Na+-phosphate cotransport in the proximal tubule"
"PTH action causes increased urinary cAMP and phosphat-uria"
"What percent of plasma Ca2+ is filtered across glomerular capillaries? 60% (40% bound to plasma proteins)"
"The bulk of Ca2+ reabsorption occurs in the proximal convoluted tubule (67%)"
"The thick ascending limb (loop of Henle) is responsible for approximately 25% of Ca2+ reabsorption"
"Ca2+ is reabsorbed in the thick ascending limb (on Henle) via a(n) paracellular route"
"What drives Ca2+ reabsorption in the thick ascending limb (of Henle)? Lumen-positive potential difference"
"Loop diuretics indirectly inhibit Ca2+ and Mg2+ reabsorption in the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle)"
"What effect do loop diuretics have on serum Ca2+ levels? Decreased"
"The distal tubule is responsible for approximately 8% of Ca2+ reabsorption"
"What is the site of regulation for Ca2+ reabsorption? Distal tubule"
"Parathyroid hormone stimulates Ca2+-Na+ exchange in the basolateral membrane of distal tubule cells"
"PTH action causes hypo-calciuria"
"Thiazide diuretics stimulate Ca2+ reabsorption in the distal tubule"
"What effect do thiazide diuretics have on serum Ca2+ levels? Increased"
"The bulk of Mg2+ reabsorption occurs in the thick ascending limb (of Henle) (60%)"
"Mg2+ is reabsorbed in the thick ascending limb (on Henle) via a(n) paracellular route"
"What drives Mg2+ reabsorption in the thick ascending limb (of Henle)? Lumen-positive potential difference"
"What effect do loop diuretics have on serum Mg2+ levels? Decreased (hypomagnesemia)"
"The proximal tubule of the nephron is responsible for approximately 30% of Mg2+ reabsorption"
"The distal tubule is responsible for approximately 5% of Mg2+ reabsorption"
"Changes in osmolarity are sensed by osmoreceptors in the anterior hypothalamus"
"Stimulation of hypothalamic osmoreceptors stimulates thirst and secretion of ADH"
"The corticopapillary osmotic gradient is the gradient of osmolarity from the cortex (300 mOsm/L) to the papilla (1200 mOsm/L)"
"The corticopapillary osmotic gradient is established, in part, by countercurrent multiplication"
"In the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle), osmolarity of the interstitial fluid increases (\single effect\\")\""
"In the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle), osmolarity of the tubular fluid decreases"
"ADH increases activity of the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter"
"The corticopapillary osmotic gradient is established, in part, by the urea cycle"
"The cortical and outer medullary collecting ducts are permeable to H2O and impermeable to urea (ADH present)"
"How does the [TF]urea change in the cortical and outer medullary collecting ducts (ADH present)? Increased [TF]urea"
"The inner medullary collecting duct is permeable to both H2O and urea (ADH present)"
"What effect does the urea cycle have on interstitial fluid osmolarity? Increased osmolarity"
"ADH enhances the activity of the urea cycle"
"In the absence of ADH, the principal cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct are impermeable to water"
"In the presence of ADH, aquaporin 2 channels are inserted in the luminal membrane of principal cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct"
"Hyper-osmotic urine is produced when the circulating levels of ADH are high"
"In the proximal tubule, [TF/P]osm = 1"
"In the late distal tubule, [TF/P]osm = 1 (high ADH)"
"In the collecting duct, [TF/P]osm > 1 (high ADH)"
"The thick ascending limb (loop of Henle) is also known as the diluting segment"
"The early distal tubule is also known as the cortical diluting segment"
"Hypo-osmotic urine is produced when the circulating levels of ADH are low"
"In the absence of ADH, the corticopapillary osmotic gradient is smaller::larger or smaller"
"The early distal tubule is impermeable to H2O"
"Without ADH, the late distal tubule and collecting ducts are impermeable to H2O"
"In the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle), TF/Posm < 1"
"In the early distal tubule, [TF/P]osm < 1"
"In the late distal tubule, [TF/P]osm < 1 (low ADH)"
"In the collecting duct, [TF/P]osm < 1 (low ADH)"
"Free water is defined as distilled water that is free of solutes"
"Free-water clearance (CH2O) is used to estimate the ability to concentrate or dilute the urine"
"In the absence of ADH, free-water clearance (CH2O) is positive"
"In the presence of ADH, free-water clearance (CH2O) is negative"
"What equation may be used to calculate free-water clearance (CH2O)? "
"When CH2O is zero, urine is iso-osmotic relative to plasma"
"A patient taking loop diuretics may have a CH2O = 0"
"When CH2O is positive, urine is hypo-osmotic relative to plasma"
"When CH2O is negative, urine is hyper-osmotic relative to plasma"
"Cholinomimetic drugs mimic the neurotransmitter acetylcholine"
"Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are found on autonomic ganglia"
"Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are found on motor end plates at the NMJ of skeletal muscle"
"Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are found on the adrenal gland"
"Muscarinic::Muscarinic or Nicotinergic? acetylcholine receptors are found in effector tissues (e.g. heart, smooth muscle, brain, glands)"
"Nicotinic Ach receptors are ligand-gated Na+/K+ (ion) channels"
"Muscarinic Ach receptors are G-protein coupled receptors"
"What G-protein is the M1 muscarinic receptor coupled to? Gq"
"What G-protein is the M2 muscarinic receptor coupled to? Gi"
"What G-protein is the M3 muscarinic receptor coupled to? Gq"
"Gq proteins activate the IP3-DAG signaling cascade"
"Gi proteins inhibit the cAMP signaling cascade"
"M1 muscarinic receptors are found in the - Central NS - Enteric NS"
"What organ does the M2 receptor primarily effect? Heart"
"M2 muscarinic receptors are found in the atria, SA node, and AV node of the heart"
"What is the effect of M2 muscarinic agonists on heart rate? Decreased HR (SA node)"
"What is the effect of M2 muscarinic agonists on conduction velocity? Decreased CV (AV node)"
"What is the effect of M2 muscarinic agonists on heart contractility? Decreased atrial contractility"
"The M3 muscarinic receptor is found in glands, the bladder, and smooth muscle"
"In healthy patients, M3 receptor activation indirectly causes vaso-dilation via release of nitric oxide"
"In atherosclerotic patients, M3 receptor activation directly causes vaso-constriction"
"What drug class does bethanechol belong to? Cholinomimetics (muscarinic agonists)"
"Bethanechol activates bowel and bladder smooth muscle"
"Bethanechol is a cholinomimetic agent used to treat post-operative and neurogenic ileus"
"Bethanechol is a cholinomimetic agent used to treat urinary retention"
"What drug class does pilocarpine belong to? Cholinomimetics (muscarinic agonists)"
"Pilocarpine is a potent stimulator of tears, sweat, and salivary secretion"
"Pilocarpine contracts the ciliary muscle, which may be used to treat open-angle glaucoma"
"Pilocarpine contracts pupillary sphincter muscle, which may be used to treat closed-angle glaucoma"
"Carbachol contracts pupillary sphincter muscle, which may be used to treat closed-angle glaucoma"
"Is carbachol a muscarinic or nicotinic Ach agonist? Both :)"
"What drug class does methacholine belong to? Cholinomimetics (muscarinic agonists)"
"Methacholine challenge instigates asthma for pulmonary testing"
"Cholinomimetics cause contraction of bronchial smooth muscle, which may exacerbate asthma or COPD"
"Varenicline is a(n) nicotinic receptor partial agonist used for smoking cessation"
"The normal range for arterial pH is 7.35 to 7.45 compatible with life is between 6.8 and 8"
"What is the normal average arterial pH? 7.4"
"CO2 is also known as volatile acid"
"CO2 combines with H2O to form the weak acid H2CO3 via the enzyme carbonic anhydrase"
"H2CO3 dissociates into H+ and HCO3-"
"Non-volatile acids are also called fixed acids"
"One non-volatile acid is sulfuric acid, which is generated from metabolism of sulfur-containing amino acids (protein)"
"One non-volatile acid is phosphoric acid, which is generated from metabolism of phospholipids"
"What non-volatile acid may be elevated with strenuous exercise? Lactic acid"
"What non-volatile acid may be elevated with aspirin overdose? Salicylic acid"
"What non-volatile acid may be elevated with methanol ingestion? Formic acid"
"What non-volatile acid may be elevated with ethylene glycol ingestion? Oxalic acid"
"A(n) buffer prevents a significant change in pH when H+ ions are added to or removed from a solution"
"The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation for any buffer states that: pH = pK + log [A-]/[HA]"
"A strong acid (e.g. HCl) has a(n) lower pK than a weak acid"
"When the pH of a solution equals the pK, the concentrations of the [A-] and [HA] form of the buffer are equal"
"Buffers are most effective within 1.0 pH unit of the pK of the buffer"
"The major buffers of the extracellular fluid are HCO3- and phosphate"
"The [A-] form of the bicarbonate buffer is HCO3-"
"The [HA] form of the bicarbonate buffer is CO2, which is in equilibrium with H2CO3"
"The Henderson-Hasselbalch equation for the HCO3-/CO2 buffer states that: pH = 6.1 + log ([HCO3-] / (0.03 * PCO2))"
"The pK of the HCO3-/CO2 buffer is 6.1"
"The pK of the H2PO4-/HPO42- buffer pair is 6.8"
"Plasma proteins may act as a buffer for H+, which subsequently affects Ca2+ levels as well"
"The most significant intracellular buffer for H+ is deoxyhemoglobin"
"Which is a better intracellular buffer in physiologic pH range, oxy- or deoxyhemoglobin? Deoxyhemoglobin"
"In the lumen of the early PCT, H2CO3 is converted to CO2 and H2O by brush border carbonic anhydrase"
"In the cells of the early PCT, H2CO3 is converted to CO2 and H2O by intracellular carbonic anhydrase"
"HCO3- is transported from the cells of proximal tubule into the blood by Na+-HCO3- cotransport and Cl--HCO3- exchange"
"Does reabsorption of HCO3- result in net secretion of H+? No"
"When the plasma [HCO3-] is greater than 40 mEq/L, the reabsorption mechanisms are fully saturated and excess HCO3- is secreted"
"ECF volume expansion results in decreased HCO3- reabsorption"
"ECF volume contraction results in increased HCO3- reabsorption"
"Angiotensin II stimulates Na+-H+ exchange in the proximal tubule"
"What effect does angiotensin II have on HCO3- reabsorption? Increased reabsorption"
"Increased PCO2 (respiratory acidosis) results in increased HCO3- reabsorption"
"Decreased PCO2 (respiratory alkalosis) results in decreased HCO3- reabsorption"
"Fixed H+ (e.g. from protein and phospholipid catabolism) is excreted in the urine as titratable acid (e.g. H2PO4-) and NH4+"
"Titratable acid is primarily excreted in the α-intercalated cells of the late distal tubule and collecting duct"
"H+ secretion from α-intercalated cells occurs via the luminal membrane H+ ATPase and H+-K+ ATPase pumps"
"In the lumen of late distal tubule and collecting duct, secreted H+ combines with the HPO4- to form H2PO4, which is a(n) titratable acid"
"For each H+ excreted as titratable acid, one new HCO3- is synthesized and reabsorbed"
"The amount of H+ excreted as titratable acid depends on the amount of urinary buffer present and the pK of the buffer"
"In the cells of the proximal tubule, the enzyme glutaminase metabolizes glutamine to glutamate and NH4+"
"In the proximal tubule, glutamate is ultimately metabolized to HCO3-, which is reabsorbed"
"For each NH4+ generated in the proximal tubule, one new HCO3- is synthesized and reabsorbed"
"In the proximal tubule cells, NH4+ is in equilibrium with NH3 and H+"
"Which form (NH4+ or NH3) is secreted into the lumen of the cells of the proximal tubule? NH3"
"The H+ from NH4+ (glutamine breakdown) in the proximal tubule cells is secreted into the lumen via the Na+-H+ exchanger"
"In the lumen of the proximal tubule, NH3 and H+ combine to form NH4+"
"A portion of the NH4+ from the proximal tubule is excreted directly in the urine"
"A portion of NH4+ from the proximal tubule is reabsorbed in the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle)"
"In the thick ascending limb, NH4+ is reabsorbed and added to the corticopapillary osmotic gradient"
"In the thick ascending limb, NH4+ may be reabsorbed by substituting for K+ on the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter"
"In the α-intercalated cells of the collecting duct, NH3 and H+ are secreted into the lumen"
"In the lumen of the collecting duct, NH3 and H+ form NH4+, which is trapped in the tubular fluid and excreted (\diffusion trapping\\")\""
"NH3 is secreted into the lumen of the collecting duct from the medullary interstitial fluid"
"As pH of the tubular fluid decreases, the excretion of H+ as NH4+ increases"
"In chronic acidosis, there is an adaptive increase in NH3 synthesis in the cells of the proximal tubule"
"Hyper-kalemia inhibits NH3 synthesis"
"Hypo-kalemia stimulates NH3 synthesis"
"What is the normal average blood HCO3- concentration (mEq/L)? 24 mEq/L"
"The plasma anion gap represents unmeasured ions in serum and is equal to [Na+] - ([HCO3-] + [Cl-])::formula"
"The range of normal values for the plasma anion gap is 8 to 16 mEq/L"
"The plasma anion gap is useful primarily in the differential diagnosis of metabolic acidosis"
"If the \lost\\" HCO3- in metabolic acidosis is replaced by Cl-"
"If the \lost\\" HCO3- in metabolic acidosis is replaced by unmeasured ions"
"Osmolar gap is the difference between measured plasma osmolarity and estimated plasma osmolarity"
"Which acid-base disturbance is caused by decreased HCO3-? Metabolic acidosis"
"The primary disturbance in metabolic acidosis is a(n) decrease in HCO3-"
"Decreased HCO3- (metabolic acidosis) causes a(n) decrease in arterial pH"
"Decreased arterial pH (metabolic acidosis) causes compensatory hyper-ventilation with consequent decreased PCO2"
"The arterial blood profile seen in compensated metabolic acidosis is: pH: decreased [HCO3-]: decreased PCO2: decreased"
"Hyperventilation as a respiratory compensation for metabolic acidosis is known as Kussmaul breathing"
"Respiratory compensation in response to metabolic acidosis or alkalosis is immediate::timing"
"Which acid-base disturbance is caused by increased HCO3-? Metabolic alkalosis"
"The primary disturbance in metabolic alkalosis is a(n) increase in HCO3- OR a(n) decrease in H+"
"Increased HCO3- causes a(n) increase in arterial pH"
"Increased arterial pH (metabolic alkalosis) causes compensatory hypo-ventilation with consequent increased PCO2"
"The arterial blood profile seen in compensated metabolic alkalosis is: pH: increased [HCO3-]: increased PCO2: increased"
"If metabolic alkalosis is accompanied by ECF volume contraction, the reabsorption of HCO3- increases, worsening the metabolic alkalosis"
"The primary disturbance in respiratory acidosis is hypo-ventilation, which results in increased CO2"
"Increased CO2 causes a(n) decrease in arterial pH"
"Increased CO2 (respiratory acidosis) causes a(n) increase in HCO3- by mass action"
"The arterial blood profile seen in compensated respiratory acidosis is: pH: decreased [HCO3-]: increased PCO2: increased"
"Renal correction of respiratory acidosis includes increased excretion of excess fixed H+ as titratable acid and NH4+"
"Renal correction of respiratory acidosis includes increased reabsorption of \new\\" HCO3-\""
"Metabolic compensation in response to respiratory acidosis or alkalosis is delayed::timing"
"The primary disturbance in respiratory alkalosis is hyper-ventilation, which results in decreased CO2"
"Decreased CO2, secondary to hyperventilation, causes a(n) increase in arterial pH"
"Decreased CO2 (respiratory alkalosis) causes a(n) decrease in HCO3- by mass action"
"The arterial blood profile seen in compensated respiratory alkalosis is: pH: increased [HCO3-]: decreased PCO2: decreased"
"Renal compensation of respiratory alkalosis includes decreased excretion of fixed H+ as titratable acid and NH4+"
"Renal compensation of respiratory alkalosis includes decreased reabsorption of \new\\" HCO3-\""
"The compensatory response to an acid-base disturbance is always in the same::(same or different) direction as the original acid-base disturbance"
"Winters formula is used to calculate the predicted respiratory compensation for a simple metabolic acidosis"
"Winter's formula for simple metabolic acidosis states that: PCO2 = 1.5[HCO3-] + 8 +/- 2"
"If the measured PCO2 > predicted PCO2 using Winters formula, then the metabolic acidosis has a concomitant respiratory acidosis"
"If the PCO2 < predicted PCO2 using Winters formula, then the metabolic acidosis has a concomitant respiratory alkalosis"
"Horseshoe kidney occurs when the inferior poles of the kidney are fused together"
"What is the most common congenital renal anomaly? Horseshoe kidney"
"As horseshoe kidneys ascend from the pelvis during fetal development, they get trapped under the inferior mesenteric artery and remain low in the abdomen"
"Is kidney function in horseshoe kidney normal or abnormal? Normal"
"Horseshoe kidney is associated with increased risk for kidney stones and infection"
"What sex chromosome disorder is associated with horseshoe kidney? Turner syndrome"
"Which congenital kidney disease is associated with chromosomal aneuploidy (e.g. trisomy 13, 18, 21)? Horseshoe kidney"
"Horseshoe kidney is rarely associated with renal cancer"
"What congenital kidney disease is associated with unilateral or bilateral absent kidney and ureter formation? Renal agenesis"
"Renal agenesis occurs due to failure of the ureteric buds to develop and induce differentiation of metanephric mesenchyme"
"Renal agenesis is often diagnosed prenatally via ultrasound"
"Unilateral renal agenesis leads to hypertrophy of the existing kidney"
"Hyperfiltration of the existing kidney in unilateral renal agenesis increases risk of renal failure later in life"
"Bilateral renal agenesis increases risk for Potter sequence"
"The primary abnormality in Potter sequence is oligo-hydramnios"
"In Potter sequence, compression of the developing fetus results in a(n) flat face with low-set ears"
"Which form of polycystic kidney disease may cause Potter sequence? Autosomal recessive PKD"
"Is dysplastic kidney heritable? No"
"What cystic congenital kidney disease is non-inherited? (Multicystic) dysplastic kidney"
"Dysplastic kidney occurs due to failure of the ureteric buds to induce differentiation of metanephric mesenchyme"
"Multicystic dysplastic kidney is often diagnosed prenatally via ultrasound"
"Dysplastic kidney is characterized by a cystic kidney with abnormal tissue (especially cartilage)"
"In dysplastic kidney, cysts are usually uni-lateral"
"In polycystic kidney disease, cysts are usually bi-lateral"
"Is polycystic kidney disease heritable? Yes"
"Is polycystic kidney disease associated with enlargement of the kidneys? Yes"
"Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease is characterized by cysts in the renal cortex and medulla"
"Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease is characterized by cystic dilation of the renal collecting ducts"
"The autosomal recessive form of polycystic kidney disease typically presents in infants"
"Autosomal recessive PKD presents in infants as worsening renal failure and hypertension::BP"
"Which form of PKD (autosomal dominant or recessive) is associated with hepatic cysts? Both :)"
"Autosomal recessive PKD is associated with congenital hepatic fibrosis which may lead to portal hypertension"
"What congenital renal defect may cause portal hypertension in an infant? Autosomal recessive PKD"
"The autosomal dominant form of polycystic kidney disease typically presents in the 4th or 5th decade"
"Autosomal dominant PKD may present in young adults with hypertension due to increased renin"
"Autosomal dominant PKD may present in young adults with flank pain and urinary infection"
"Autosomal dominant PKD may present in young adults as worsening renal failure and hemat-uria"
"What % of patients with autosomal dominant PKD experience progressive renal failure? 50%"
"85% of autosomal dominant PKD is due to a(n) PKD1 mutation on chromosome 16"
"15% of autosomal dominant PKD is due to a(n) PKD2 mutation on chromosome 4"
"Autosomal dominant PKD is associated with berry aneurysm, which is an important cause of death"
"Autosomal dominant and recessive PKD are associated with hepatic cysts in addition to renal cysts (benign)"
"What heart defect is associated with autosomal dominant PKD? Mitral valve prolapse"
"When patients with Autosomal Dominant PKD develop hypertension or proteinuria, you may treat with ACE inhibitors or ARBs::two types of drugs?"
"Is Autosomal Dominant Tubulointerstitial Kidney Disease (Medullary Cystic Kidney Disease) heritable? Yes"
"What is the mode of inheritance of medullary cystic kidney disease? Autosomal dominant"
"Autosomal Dominant Tubulointerstitial Kidney Disease (ADTKD) has the potential to present with cysts in the medullary collecting ducts"
"ADTKD is associated with tubulointerstitial fibrosis, resulting in shrunken kidneys"
"Patients with Autosomal Dominant Tubulointerstitial Kidney Disease often have early onset gout"
"Autosomal Dominant Tubulointerstitial Kidney Disease is associated with an inability to concentrate urine"
"What is the prognosis of Autosomal Dominant Tubulointerstitial Kidney Disease? Poor prognosis"
"What congenital renal defect is a condition of being born with only one functioning kidney (one non-functional)? Congenital solitary functioning kidney"
"Congenital solitary functioning kidney leads to hypertrophy of the functioning kidney"
"Simple renal cysts are filled with ultrafiltrate and are anechoic on ultrasound"
"Simple renal cysts are very common and account for majority of all renal masses; typically asymptomatic"
"Complex renal cysts are septated, enhanced, or have solid components on imaging"
"Complex renal cysts require follow-up or removal due to risk of renal cell carcinoma"
"Fetal kidney development begins with the pronephros, which develops by week 4"
"After the pronephros develops, it then degenerates"
"The mesonephros forms after the pronephros and functions as an interim kidney for the 1st trimester"
"The mesonephros later contributes to the male genital system"
"Which embryologic kidney becomes the permanent kidney? Metanephros"
"The metanephros first appears in the 5th week of gestation"
"Nephrogenesis continues through 32 to 36 weeks of gestation"
"The ureteric bud is derived from the caudal end of the mesonephric duct"
"The embryonic ureteric bud gives rise to the ureter, pelvises, calyces, and collecting ducts"
"The ureteric bud is fully canalized by the 10th week of gestation, allowing the metanephros to make urine"
"The embryonic metanephric mesenchyme (blastema) differentiates into renal structures from the glomerulus through the DCT"
"The embryonic metanephric mesenchyme interacts via reciprocal-inductive signaling with the ureteric bud, inducing differentiation of these tissues into their respective parts of the kidney"
"The ureteropelvic junction is the last structure of the embryologic kidney to canalize"
"What is the most common site of obstruction (hydronephrosis) in the fetal kidney? Ureteropelvic junction"
"Duplex collecting system is a congenital renal disease characterized by bifurcation of the ureteric bud before it enters the metanephric mesenchyme"
"What congenital renal disease is characterized by a Y-shaped bifid ureter? Duplex collecting system"
"Duplex collecting system may occur due to two ureteric buds reaching and interacting with one metanephric mesenchyme"
"Duplex collecting system is strongly associated with vesicoureteral reflux and/or ureteral obstruction"
"Duplex collecting system is associated with increased risk for urinary tract infection"
"The hallmark of acute kidney injury is azotemia, often with oliguria::urinary change"
"Azotemia typically refers to an increase in serum BUN and creatinine"
"Prerenal azotemia is due to decreased renal blood flow (e.g. cardiac failure, hypotension)"
"What is the effect of prerenal azotemia on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"Is BUN normally reabsorbed by the kidney? Yes"
"Is creatinine normally reabsorbed by the kidney? No"
"What is the normal serum BUN:creatinine ratio? ~ 15:1"
"In prerenal azotemia, the BUN:creatinine ratio is > 15"
"In prerenal azotemia, there is increased reabsorption of Na+ and H2O"
"How does the fractional excretion of Na+ (FENa) change in prerenal azotemia? Decreased; < 1%"
"What is the urine osmolality (mOsm/kg) in prerenal azotemia? > 500 mOsm/kg (normal)"
"What is the urine Na+ (mEq/L) in prerenal azotemia? < 20 mEq/L"
"Postrenal azotemia is due to obstruction of the urinary tract downstream from the kidney (e.g. stones, BPH, neoplasia)"
"Does postrenal azotemia occur with unilateral or bilateral obstruction? Bilateral"
"What is the effect of postrenal azotemia on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"In early postrenal azotemia, the BUN:creatinine ratio is > 15"
"What is the fractional excretion of Na+ (FENa) in early postrenal azotemia? < 1% (normal)::>2% or <1%?"
"What is the urine osmolality (mOsm/kg) in early postrenal azotemia? > 500 mOsm/kg (normal)::>500 or <350?"
"In long-standing postrenal azotemia, the BUN:creatinine ratio is < 15"
"What is the fractional excretion of Na+ (FENa) in long-standing (severe) postrenal azotemia? > 2% (elevated)::>2% or <1%?"
"What is the urine osmolality (mOsm/kg) in long-standing postrenal azotemia? < 350 mOsm/kg (low)"
"What is the urine Na+ (mEq/L) in postrenal azotemia? > 40 mEq/L*::>40 or <20?"
"Intrarenal azotemia is generally due to acute tubular necrosis or ischemia/toxins"
"What is the most common cause of acute renal failure in hospitalized patients? Acute tubular necrosis"
"What is the effect of acute tubular necrosis on GFR? Decreased GFR"
"Acute tubular necrosis is characterized histologically by loss of nuclei and detachment of tubular cells from the basement membrane"
"In acute tubular necrosis, the BUN:creatinine ratio is < 15"
"What is the fractional excretion of Na+ (FENa) in acute tubular necrosis? > 2% (elevated)"
"What is the urine osmolality (mOsm/kg) in acute tubular necrosis? < 350 mOsm/kg (low)"
"What is the urine Na+ (mEq/L) in acute tubular necrosis? > 40 mEq/L"
"Acute tubular necrosis is caused by ischemic or nephrotoxic injury"
"Acute tubular necrosis caused by ischemia is due to decreased renal blood flow"
"Acute tubular necrosis due to ischemic injury is often preceded by prerenal azotemia"
"Acute tubular necrosis due to ischemic injury most commonly affects the proximal tubule and the medullary segment of the thick ascending limb"
"Acute tubular necrosis caused by nephrotoxicity is due to toxic substances"
"Acute tubular necrosis due to nephrotoxic injury most commonly affects the proximal tubule"
"What class of anti-microbials is a common cause of acute tubular necrosis? Aminoglycosides"
"Acute tubular necrosis may be caused by heavy metals such as lead"
"Acute tubular necrosis may be caused by myoglobinuria, which can occur with crush injuries"
"Acute tubular necrosis may be caused by ingestion of ethylene glycol, which is associated with oxalate crystals in the urine"
"Acute tubular necrosis may be caused by radio-contrast dyes"
"Acute tubular necrosis may be caused by high levels of uric acid (e.g. tumor lysis syndrome)"
"What chemotherapeutic agent may cause acute tubular necrosis? Cisplatin"
"Hydration and allopurinol are used prior to initiation of chemotherapy to decrease risk of urate-induced acute tubular necrosis"
"Acute tubular necrosis is associated with granular \muddy brown\\" casts in the urine\""
"The first stage of acute tubular necrosis is the inciting event"
"The second stage of acute tubular necrosis is the maintenance phase"
"Does the maintenance phase of acute tubular necrosis present with oliguria or polyuria? Oliguria"
"How long does the maintenance phase of acute tubular necrosis last? 1-3 weeks"
"During the maintenance phase of acute tubular necrosis, there is increased risk for hyper-kalemia and uremia"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with the maintenance phase of acute tubular necrosis? Metabolic acidosis"
"The third (final) stage of acute tubular necrosis is the recovery phase"
"Does the recovery phase of acute tubular necrosis present with oliguria or polyuria? Polyuria"
"During the recovery phase of acute tubular necrosis, there is increased risk for hypo-kalemia and renal wasting of other electrolytes and minerals"
"During the recovery phase of acute tubular necrosis, BUN and serum creatinine levels decrease"
"Acute tubular necrosis is reversible but often requires supportive dialysis due to electrolyte imbalances (e.g. hypokalemia)"
"Intrarenal azotemia is less commonly due to acute glomerulonephritis or acute interstitial nephritis"
"Acute interstitial nephritis is a drug-induced hypersensitivity reaction involving the interstitium and tubules of the kidney"
"Acute interstitial nephritis is characterized histologically by inflammatory infiltrate in the connective tissue between renal tubules"
"Acute interstitial nephritis may present with fever and rash, days to weeks after starting a drug"
"Acute interstitial nephritis is associated with hemat-uria and pyuria (classically eosinophils)"
"What physical exam finding may be associated with acute interstitial nephritis? CVA tenderness"
"Drugs that cause acute interstitial nephritis may be remembered with the 5 \P's\\" Pee (diuretics) Pain-free (NSAIDs) Penicillins (and cephalosporins) Proton pump inhibitors RifamPin\""
"What is the treatment for drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis? Cessation of the drug"
"Acute interstitial nephritis is less commonly secondary to systemic infections (e.g. mycoplasma)"
"Acute interstitial nephritis is less commonly secondary to autoimmune diseases (e.g. Sjögren's syndrome, SLE, sarcoidosis)"
"Acute interstitial nephritis may progress to renal papillary necrosis"
"Renal papillary necrosis is characterized by sloughing of necrotic renal papillae"
"Renal papillary necrosis presents with gross hemat-uria and colicky flank pain"
"In addition to hematuria, renal papillary necrosis may also present with protein-uria"
"Renal papillary necrosis may be caused by chronic analgesic abuse"
"Renal papillary necrosis may be caused by sickle cell disease or trait"
"Renal papillary necrosis may be caused by severe acute pyelonephritis"
"What endocrine pathology may cause renal papillary necrosis? Diabetes mellitus"
"Nephrotic syndrome is a group of glomerular disorders characterized by protein-uria > 3.5 g/day"
"Nephrotic syndrome results in hypoalbuminemia, which manifests as pitting edema and secondary hyperaldosteronism"
"Nephrotic syndrome results in hypogammaglobulinemia, which increases risk of infection"
"Nephrotic syndrome causes a(n) hyper-coagulable state due to loss of antithrombin III"
"Nephrotic syndrome is associated with hyper-lipidemia and hyper-cholesterolemia"
"Nephrotic syndrome is associated with frothy urine with fatty casts"
"Minimal change disease (lipoid nephrosis) is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in children"
"The cause of minimal change disease is often idiopathic and may be triggered by recent URI, immunization, or immune stimulus (ex. insect bite)"
"Minimal change disease (lipoid nephrosis) is rarely secondary to Hodgkin lymphoma"
"Minimal change disease is characterized by cytokine-mediated damage of foot processes and loss of glomerular basement anions"
"Minimal change disease is characterized by normal glomeruli on light microscopy"
"In minimal change disease (lipoid nephrosis), lipids may be seen in proximal tubule cells of the nephron (light microscopy)"
"Minimal change disease is characterized by effacement of foot processes on electron microscopy"
"What immunofluorescence findings are associated with minimal change disease? None (no immune complex deposits)"
"Minimal change disease is characterized by loss of albumin, but not immunoglobulin in the urine (selective proteinuria)"
"Minimal change disease has a(n) excellent response to corticosteroids"
"Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in Hispanics::ethnicity and African Americans::ethnicity"
"The cause of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is usually idiopathic, but may be secondary to: - massive obesity - interferon treatment - congenital kidney malformations that cause chronic kidney disease"
"What hematologic pathology is associated with increased risk for focal segmental glomerulosclerosis? Sickle cell disease"
"What infectious disease is associated with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis? HIV"
"Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is a type of nephrotic syndrome associated with heroin abuse"
"Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is characterized by focal and segmental sclerosis and hyalinosis on light microscopy"
"Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis is characterized by effacement of foot processes on electron microscopy"
"What immunofluorescence findings are usually associated with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis? None (no immune complex deposits)"
"Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis has a(n) poor response to corticosteroids"
"Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis ultimately progresses to chronic renal failure"
"Membranous nephropathy is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in Caucasian adults"
"Primary membranous nephropathy is associated with autoantibodies against the transmembrane phospholipase A2 receptor found in high concentrations in glomerular podocytes"
"What type of nephrotic syndrome is a patient with SLE most likely to get? Membranous nephropathy"
"What infectious diseases is membranous nephropathy associated with? HBV, HCV::2"
"Membranous nephropathy may occur secondary to drugs, such as NSAIDs and penicillamine"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is commonly seen secondary to solid tumors? Membranous nephropathy"
"Membranous nephropathy is characterized by diffuse capillary and GBM thickening on light microscopy"
"What immunofluorescence findings are associated with membranous nephropathy? Granular deposits (immune complex deposition)"
"Membranous nephropathy is characterized by subepithelial deposits with a 'spike and dome' appearance on electron microscopy"
"Membranous nephropathy has a(n) poor response to corticosteroids"
"Membranous nephropathy ultimately progresses to chronic renal failure"
"Is membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) a nephritic or nephrotic syndrome? Can be either or both"
"Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is associated with basement membrane thickening and splitting on light microscopy"
"Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis is associated with a 'tram-track' appearance on PAS and H&E stain"
"The 'tram-track' appearance associated with MPGN is due to basement membrane splitting caused by mesangial cell ingrowth"
"What immunofluorescence findings are associated with membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis? Granular deposits (immune complex deposition)"
"MPGN type I is associated with subendothelial immune complex deposits"
"MPGN type II is associated with intramembranous immune complex deposits"
"Which type of MPGN is more often associated with a 'tram track' appearance on H&E stain? Type I"
"What infectious diseases are associated with type I MPGN? HBV, HCV::2"
"Type II MPGN is also known as dense deposit disease"
"Type II MPGN is associated with C3 nephritic factor, an autoantibody that stabilizes C3 convertase"
"Type II MPGN is associated with low circulating levels of C3"
"Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis has a(n) poor response to corticosteroids"
"Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis ultimately progresses to chronic renal failure"
"Non-enzymatic glycosylation of the GBM results in hyaline arteriolosclerosis"
"Which renal arteriole is initially affected by non-enzymatic glycation? Efferent arteriole"
"What drug class is used to slow progression of hyperfiltration-induced damage in diabetic glomerulonephropathy? ACE inhibitors"
"What is the first change that occurs in the kidney in a diabetes mellitus patient? Non-enzymatic glycosylation of GBM"
"Nephrotic syndrome may be caused by systemic amyloidosis"
"The most commonly involved organ in systemic amyloidosis is the kidney"
"Where in the kidney does amyloid deposit, causing nephrotic syndrome? Mesangium"
"Amyloidosis is characterized by apple-green birefringence under polarized light after staining with Congo red"
"Nephrotic syndrome occurs due to podocyte damage disrupting the glomerular filtration charge barrier"
"Nephritic syndrome is a group of glomerular disorders characterized by glomerular inflammation and bleeding"
"Nephritic syndrome is characterized by limited protein-uria < 3.5 g/day"
"How does nephritic syndrome affect urine output? Decreased (oliguria)"
"Nephritic syndrome is associated with increased BUN and creatinine"
"Nephritic syndrome is associated with salt retention with consequent periorbital edema and hypertension"
"Nephritic syndrome may lead to hematuria and RBC casts in the urine"
"Biopsy of nephritic syndrome reveals hyper-cellular, inflamed glomeruli"
"Nephritic syndrome is typically associated with immune-complex deposition, which activates complement (e.g. C5a)"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN) is a type of nephritic syndrome that arises after a(n) group A β-hemolytic streptococcal infection of the skin (impetigo) or pharynx"
"PSGN occurs with nephritogenic strains of group A β-hemolytic streptococcus, which carry the M protein virulence factor and is caused by glomerular deposition of nephritogenic antigens such as SpeB"
"PSGN typically presents 2 to 4 weeks after a group A β-hemolytic streptococcal infection"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis? Type III (immune complex-mediated)"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis may present with hemat-uria and cola / tea-colored urine"
"PSGN may present with peripheral and periorbital edema"
"PSGN may present with hypertension::BP"
"What demographic is more commonly associated with PSGN? Children::age group"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis is characterized by enlarged and hyper-cellular glomeruli on light microscopy"
"PSGN is characterized by a \lumpy bumpy (granular)\\" immunofluorescence pattern due to immune complex deposition\""
"The \lumpy-bumpy\\" appearance of PSGN on immunofluorescence is due to deposits with immune complexes consisting of IgG / IgM and C3\""
"PSGN is characterized by subepithelial immune complex \humps\\" on electron microscopy\""
"What is the treatment for post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis? Supportive (resolves spontaneously)"
"Children with PSGN rarely (1%)::frequency progress to renal failure"
"About 25% of adults with PSGN develop rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis"
"Diagnosis of post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis may be aided by positive strep titers/serologies"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis is associated with decreased levels of complement"
"Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis is a nephritic syndrome that progresses to renal failure in days to weeks"
"What is the prognosis of rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis? Poor prognosis"
"Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis is characterized by crescents in Bowman's space of the glomeruli (light microscopy)"
"The crescents seen in RPGN are composed of fibrin and macrophages"
"Goodpasture syndrome is a form of RPGN that presents with a(n) linear pattern on immunofluorescence"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is Goodpasture syndrome? Type II HSR"
"Goodpasture syndrome occurs due to antibodies against the glomerular and alveolar basement membranes"
"Goodpasture syndrome presents with hematuria and hemoptysis"
"What demographic is associated with Goodpasture syndrome? Young adult males"
"What is the treatment for Goodpasture syndrome? Emergent plasmapheresis"
"RPGN with a granular immunofluorescence pattern is more commonly due to post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis"
"RPGN with a granular immunofluorescence pattern is less commonly due to diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis"
"What type of nephritic syndrome is a patient with SLE most likely to get? Diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis"
"Diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis is a common cause of death in patients with SLE"
"Diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis is characterized by \wire looping\\" of capillaries on light microscopy\""
"Diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis is characterized by a(n) granular pattern on immunofluorescence"
"DPGN is characterized by subendothelial and sometimes intramembranous immune complexes on electron microscopy"
"The immune complexes in DPGN are IgG-based and often have C3 deposition"
"If RPGN has no immunofluorescence pattern, it is termed pauci-immune glomerulonephritis"
"Which cause of pauci-immune glomerulonephritis is associated with c-ANCA (PR3-ANCA)? Wegener granulomatosis"
"Which causes of pauci-immune glomerulonephritis are associated with p-ANCA (MPO-ANCA)? Microscopic polyangiitis, Churg-strauss syndrome::2"
"What is the most common nephropathy worldwide? IgA nephropathy (Berger disease)"
"IgA nephropathy (Berger disease) is the renal pathology associated with Henoch-Schonlein purpura"
"IgA nephropathy typically presents during childhood with episodic gross or microscopic hemat-uria or RBC casts"
"IgA nephropathy typically follows a(n) respiratory or GI tract infection"
"IgA nephropathy is characterized by mesangial proliferation on light microscopy"
"IgA nephropathy is characterized by mesangial::location immune complex deposits on electron microscopy"
"Berger disease is characterized by IgA-based immune complex deposits in the mesangium (seen with immunofluorescence)"
"IgA nephropathy (Berger disease) may slowly progress to renal failure"
"Alport syndrome is an inherited defect in type IV collagen"
"What is the most common mode of inheritance of Alport syndrome? X-linked dominant"
"Alport syndrome is characterized by thinning and splitting of the glomerular basement membrane"
"Alport syndrome often presents with a triad of ocular disturbances, isolated hematuria, and sensory hearing loss"
"Alport syndrome is associated with a \basket-weave\\" appearance on electron microscopy\""
"Urinary tract infection is an infection of the urethra, bladder, or kidney"
"UTI most commonly arises due to ascending::ascending or descending infection"
"Females::gender have increased risk for UTI due to a relatively short urethra"
"What endocrine pathology is associated with UTI? Diabetes mellitus"
"Impaired bladder emptying increases risk for UTI"
"One risk factor for UTI is sexual activity"
"One risk factor for UTI is indwelling catheters"
"Cystitis is an infection/inflammation of the bladder"
"Cystitis typically presents with dys-uria, urinary frequency, urgency, and suprapubic pain"
"Does cystitis typically present with systemic signs (e.g. fever)? No"
"Cystitis is characterized by cloudy urine with > 10::# WBCs/hpf (urinalysis)"
"Cystitis is characterized by positive leukocyte esterase due to pyuria"
"Cystitis is characterized by positive nitrites, which indicates gram negative organisms"
"The gold standard for diagnosis of cystitis is culture showing > 100,000 colony forming units"
"What infectious organism is the most common (80%) cause of cystitis? E. coli"
"The second most common infectious cause of cystitis is Staphyloccocus saprophyticus"
"What demographic is associated with Staphylococcus saprophyticus? Young, sexually active women"
"What urease positive, pneumonia-causing bacteria is a common cause of UTI? Klebsiella pneumoniae"
"Cystitis caused by Proteus mirabilis is characterized by alkaline urine (pH) with a(n) ammonia scent"
"Which bacteria is associated with endocarditis, biliary tree infection, and UTI? Enterococcus faecalis"
"Sterile pyuria is the presence of pyuria (> 10 WBCs/hpf and leukocyte esterase) with a negative urine culture"
"UTI with sterile pyuria suggests urethritis due to Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"The dominant presenting sign of urethritis is dysuria"
"Pyelonephritis is an infection of the kidney"
"Acute pyelonephritis is characterized by neutrophilic infiltration of the renal interstitium"
"Acute pyelonephritis affects the cortex of the kidney with relative sparing of glomeruli/vessels"
"One risk factor for pyelonephritis is vesicoureteral reflux"
"What non-pathologic state is associated with increased risk for pyelonephritis? Pregnancy"
"One risk factor for pyelonephritis is urinary tract obstruction::not infection"
"Does acute pyelonephritis typically present with systemic signs (e.g. fever, chills)? Yes"
"What gastrointestinal symptoms may be associated with acute pyelonephritis? Nausea, vomiting::2"
"Acute pyelonephritis may present with flank pain due to sensitization of the nerves of the kidney capsule"
"Acute pyelonephritis may present with WBCs in the urine +/- WBC casts"
"What is the most common bacterial cause (90%) of acute pyelonephritis? E. coli"
"Acute pyelonephritis may be characterized by striated parenchymal enhancement of the kidney on CT"
"In addition to ascending UTI (most common), acute pyelonephritis may be caused by hematogenous spread to the kidney"
"One complication of acute pyelonephritis is renal papillary necrosis"
"One complication of acute pyelonephritis is perinephric abscess"
"One complication of acute pyelonephritis is uro-sepsis"
"What is the general treatment for acute pyelonephritis? Antibiotics"
"Chronic pyelonephritis is the result of recurrent episodes of acute pyelonephritis"
"Chronic pyelonephritis is characterized by interstitial fibrosis and atrophy of tubules"
"Chronic pyelonephritis typically requires predisposition to infection, such as vesicoureteral reflux (children) or obstruction"
"Chronic pyelonephritis is characterized by coarse, asymmetric corticomedullary scarring and blunted calyces in the kidney"
"Chronic pyelonephritis with scarring at the upper and lower poles is characteristic of vesicoureteral reflux"
"Chronic pyelonephritis is characterized histologically by renal tubules containing eosinophilic proteinaceous material resembling thyroid follicles"
"Xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis is characterized by widespread kidney damage due to granulomatous tissue containing foamy macrophages (rare)"
"Nephrolithiasis is the precipitation of a urinary solute as a stone"
"Risk factors for nephrolithiasis include: - high solute concentration in the urinary filtrate - low urine volume"
"Nephrolithiasis may present as colicky::character flank pain that radiates to the groin"
"An obstructed kidney stone may present with unilateral flank tenderness that radiates to the groin"
"Kidney stones may be treated and prevented by encouraging fluid intake"
"What is the most common type of kidney stone? Calcium stone (80%)"
"Which type of calcium kidney stone (calcium-oxalate or calcium-phosphate) is more common? Calcium oxalate"
"Calcium oxalate kidney stones often precipitate due to hypocitrat-uria"
"Hypocitraturia is often associated with decreased urine pH"
"Calcium phosphate kidney stones precipitate with increased urine pH"
"The most common kidney stone presentation is a(n) calcium oxalate stone in a patient with hyper-calciuria and normo-calcemia"
"What GI pathology is associated with calcium oxalate kidney stones? Crohn's disease"
"Crohn disease is associated with calcium oxalate kidney stones due to increased levels of oxalate"
"What is the appearance calcium kidney stones on X-ray and CT? Radiopaque"
"Calcium oxalate kidney stones are characterized by urine crystals in the shape of a(n) envelope or dumbbell"
"Calcium phosphate kidney stones are characterized by urine crystals in the shape of a(n) wedge-shaped prism"
"Calcium kidney stones may be treated with thiazide diuretics"
"In addition to thiazides, calcium oxalate kidney stones may be treated with citrate supplementation and a low-sodium diet"
"What type of kidney stone may result from ethylene glycol (antifreeze) ingestion? Calcium oxalate"
"Calcium oxalate kidney stones may result from vitamin C abuse"
"The second most common type of kidney stone (15%) is a(n) ammonium magnesium phosphate stone, also known as struvite"
"Ammonium magnesium phosphate kidney stones precipitate with high urine pH"
"What is the appearance of ammonium magnesium phosphate kidney stones on X-ray and CT? Radiopaque"
"Ammonium magnesium phosphate kidney stones are characterized by urine crystals in the shape of a(n) coffin lid"
"Ammonium magnesium phosphate kidney stones are caused by urease positive organisms"
"Urease positive organisms hydrolyze urea to ammonia, causing urine alkalinization"
"Ammonium magnesium phosphate (struvite) kidney stones classically form staghorn calculi in renal calyces"
"The staghorn calculi seen in struvite kidney stones may act as a nidus for urinary tract infection"
"What type of kidney stone commonly requires surgical removal due to its size? Ammonium magnesium phosphate (struvite) stones"
"In addition to surgical removal, treatment of struvite stones involves eradication of underlying infection"
"The third most common type of kidney stone (5%) is a(n) uric acid stone"
"Uric acid kidney stones precipitate with low urine pH"
"What is the appearance of uric acid kidney stones on X-ray? Radiolucent"
"What is the appearance of uric acid kidney stones on CT? Minimally visible"
"Uric acid kidney stones are characterized by urine crystals in the shape of a(n) rhomboid or rosettes"
"What imaging modality may be used to visualize uric acid kidney stones? Ultrasound"
"Risk factors for uric acid kidney stones include hot/arid climates and low urine volume"
"What type of kidney stone is seen in patients with gout? Uric acid stone"
"Uric acid kidney stones are often seen in diseases with increased cell turnover (e.g. leukemia, myeloproliferative disorders)"
"Treatment of uric acid kidney stones involves alkalinization of urine (e.g. potassium bicarbonate)"
"Treatment of uric acid kidney stones may include allopurinol, especially in patients with gout"
"Cystine stones are a rare form of nephrolithiasis, most commonly seen in children::age group"
"Cystine kidney stones precipitate with low urine pH"
"What is the appearance of cystine kidney stones on X-ray? Faintly radioopaque"
"What is the appearance of cystine kidney stones on CT? Moderately radioopaque (sometimes visible)"
"Cystine kidney stones are characterized by urine crystals that are hexagonal in shape"
"What inherited pathology are cystine kidney stones associated with? Cystinuria"
"Patients with cystinuria have decreased reabsorption of cystine, ornithine, lysine, and arginine"
"Cystine kidney stones may form staghorn calculi"
"A positive sodium cyanide nitroprusside test may help in the diagnosis of cystine kidney stones"
"Treatment of cystine kidney stones involves alkalinization of urine and a low-sodium diet"
"What treatment may be used for refractory cases of cystine kidney stones? Chelating agents (e.g. penicillamine)"
"Kidney stones can lead to severe complications including hydronephrosis and pyelonephritis"
"Chronic renal failure is most commonly caused by diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and glomerular disease"
"Renal failure is associated with an inability to make urine and excrete nitrogenous wastes"
"One clinical feature of renal failure is uremia, which is a symptomatic clinical syndrome marked by increased nitrogenous waste products in the blood (azotemia)"
"What cardiac pathology is a consequence of uremia (renal failure)? Pericarditis"
"Uremia, a consequence of renal failure, may cause platelet dysfunction in the blood"
"Uremia, a consequence of renal failure, may cause encephalopathy with asterixis"
"What GI symptoms are associated with uremia (renal failure)? Nausea, anorexia::2"
"Uremia, a consequence of renal failure, may cause deposition of urea crystals in the skin"
"What acid-base disorder is a consequence of renal failure? Metabolic acidosis"
"The consequences of renal failure may be remembered using the mnemonic \MAD HUNGER\\": M.A: Metabolic Acidosis D: Dyslipidemia (especially increased triglycerides) H: Hyperkalemia U: Uremia N: Na+ / H2O retention G: Growth retardation and developmental delay E: Erythropoietin failure (anemia) R: Renal osteodystrophy\""
"What potassium imbalance is a consequence of renal failure? Hyperkalemia"
"One consequence of renal failure is Na+ and H2O retention with resulting hypertension, heart failure, and pulmonary edema"
"One consequence of renal failure is anemia due to decreased erythropoietin production"
"Erythropoietin is produced by renal peritubular interstitial cells"
"What bone pathology is associated with chronic renal failure? Renal osteodystrophy"
"Chronic renal disease is characterized by hypo-calcemia"
"Chronic renal disease is characterized by hyper-phosphatemia"
"Hypocalcemia in chronic renal disease is caused, in part, by decreased 1-α-hydroxylation of vitamin D"
"How do levels of parathyroid hormone change in chronic renal disease? Increased (secondary hyperparathyroidism)"
"Hyperparathyroidism is characterized by subperiosteal thinning of bones"
"Treatment of renal failure involves dialysis or renal transplant"
"End-stage kidneys are often shrunken::size"
"During dialysis, end-stage kidneys often develop cysts"
"Cyst formation within end-stage kidneys during dialysis increases risk for renal cell carcinoma"
"Renal cell carcinoma is associated with \PEAR-aneoplastic\\" syndromes"
"Which renal neoplasia is associated with paraneoplastic syndromes? Renal cell carcinoma"
"Renal cell carcinoma rarely may present with left-sided varicocele in males"
"Gross examination of a renal cell carcinoma reveals a(n) golden-yellow::color mass"
"Loss of the VHL tumor suppressor gene (renal cell carcinoma) leads to increased IGF-1, which promotes growth"
"Loss of the VHL tumor suppressor gene (renal cell carcinoma) leads to increased HIF transcription factor, which increases VEGF and PDGF"
"Renal cell carcinoma tumors may be caused by hereditary or sporadic etiologies"
"The sporadic form of renal cell carcinoma arises as a single tumor(s) in the upper pole of the kidney"
"The hereditary form of renal cell carcinoma classically rises in younger adults::age group"
"Is the hereditary form of renal cell carcinoma typically uni- or bilateral? Bilateral"
"Von Hippel-Lindau disease is an inherited disease associated with increased risk for renal cell carcinoma and hemangioblastoma of the cerebellum"
"The T of TNM staging for renal cell carcinoma represents the tumor size and involvement of the renal vein"
"Renal cell carcinoma may invade the renal vein, then IVC, before spreading hematogenously"
"What is the treatment for advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma? Immunotherapy or targeted therapy::2"
"Wilms tumor is caused by \loss of function\\" mutations of tumor suppression genes WT1 or WT2 on chromosome 11\""
"Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is associated with a(n) WT2 gene mutation"
"Denys-Drash syndrome is a combination of: 1. Wilms tumor 2. Early-onset nephrotic syndrome 3. Male pseudohermaphroditism"
"Denys-Drash syndrome is associated with a(n) WT1 gene mutation"
"The major risk factor for transitional cell carcinoma is cigarette smoke"
"Which urinary tract cancer is associated with naphthylamine? Transitional cell carcinoma"
"Transitional cell carcinoma may arise via two distinct pathways: flat and papillary"
"Transitional cell (urothelial) carcinoma via the flat pathway is associated with early p53 mutations"
"Does transitional cell carcinoma via the flat pathway develop as a high-grade or low-grade tumor? High-grade tumor"
"Is transitional cell carcinoma via the papillary pathway associated with early p53 mutations? No"
"Does transitional cell carcinoma via the papillary pathway develop as a high-grade or low-grade tumor? Low-grade tumor"
"Chronic irritation of the bladder can cause squamous metaplasia, which may progress to squamous cell carcinoma"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder arises in a background of squamous metaplasia"
"Schistosoma haematobium infection is associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder in Middle eastern::ethnicity males"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder typically presents with painless hematuria"
"Adenocarcinoma is a cancer of the bladder that usually arises from a(n) urachal remnant"
"Adenocarcinoma of the bladder may arise from cystitis glandularis, which is a(n) columnar metaplasia in response to chronic inflammation"
"If a patient is supine during aspiration, an abscess may form in the superior segment of the right lower lobe of the lung"
"Where in the nephron do acetazolamide and mannitol primarily exert their effects? Proximal convoluted tubule"
"The Na+-K+ ATPase is located on the basolateral membrane of the nephron"
"The Na+-H+ exchanger is located on the apical (luminal) membrane in the PCT of the nephron"
"The H+ secreted into the lumen of the PCT combines with HCO3- to form carbonic acid (H2CO3)"
"What enzyme catalyzes the conversion of H2CO3 into CO2 and H2O (and its reverse reaction)? Carbonic anhydrase"
"H2CO3 is converted into H2O and CO2 by carbonic anhydrase"
"Inside the cells of the PCT, H2O and CO2 are converted back into H2CO3"
"The H2CO3 formed inside the cells of the PCT dissociates into H+ and HCO3-"
"H+ in the PCT cells, from H2CO3, is transported into the lumen of the PCT"
"HCO3- in the PCT cells, from H2CO3, is transported into the interstitium of the PCT"
"Acetazolamide is a diuretic that inhibits the enzyme carbonic anhydrase"
"Acetazolamide primarily prevents reabsorption of HCO3-"
"Acetazolamide causes urine alkalinization::pH"
"In addition to HCO3-, acetazolamide also prevents the reabsorption of Na+ and H2O"
"Acetazolamide causes increased::increased or decreased excretion of HCO3-"
"Besides a type II RTA, what acid-base disorder may be caused by acetazolamide? Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"Acetazolamide causes decreased production of aqueous humor, which is useful in the management of glaucoma"
"Acetazolamide causes decreased production of CSF, which is useful in the management of pseudotumor cerebri"
"Acetazolamide is useful in the treatment and prevention of acute altitude sickness"
"Urinary alkalinization (e.g. acetazolamide) can increase solubility of cystine and uric acid kidney stones"
"What effect may acetazolamide have on serum K+ levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"What type of renal tubular acidosis may be caused by acetazolamide? Type 2 (Proximal)"
"Which diuretic can cause type 2 renal tubular acidosis as an adverse effect? Acetazolamide"
"Acetazolamide may promote the formation of calcium phosphate kidney stones OR struvite stones"
"Acetazolamide is a(n) sulfa drug and thus may cause adverse reactions in allergic patients"
"One adverse effect associated with acetazolamide is NH3::compound toxicity"
"What neurological adverse effect may be caused by acetazolamide? Paresthesias"
"What acid-base disorder may be treated with acetazolamide? Metabolic alkalosis"
"Mannitol is a(n) osmotic diuretic that acts at the proximal tubule and descending limb (of Henle)::location"
"Mannitol may be used to decrease intracranial and intraocular pressure"
"What effect does mannitol have on urine flow? Increased urine flow (diuretic)"
"Mannitol may be used clinically for drug overdose"
"Mannitol may be used to treat elevated intracranial and/or intraocular pressure"
"Mannitol-induced expanded ECF volume can cause pulmonary edema"
"Mannitol-induced expanded ECF volume can exacerbate heart failure"
"Is mannitol associated with hypernatremia or hyponatremia as a possible adverse effect? Both :)"
"Mannitol is contraindicated in patients with anuria and/or heart failure"
"Which osmotic diuretic may cause dehydration as a possible adverse effect? Mannitol"
"The fractional excretion of sodium (FENa) is the ratio of the Na+ excreted/ Na+ filtered"
"What equation may be used to calculate the fractional excretion of sodium given the patient's GFR? FENa = (V * UNa) / (GFR * PNa)"
"What equation may be used to calculate the fractional excretion of sodium using creatinine as an estimate of GFR? FENa = (PCr * UNa) / (UCr * PNa)"
"Where in the nephron does most uric acid reabsorption take place? Early PCT"
"Where in the nephron is reabsorption isotonic? PCT"
"On the apical membrane of β-intercalated cells is a(n) Cl--HCO3- exchanger"
"On the basolateral membrane of β-intercalated cells is a(n) H+-ATPase pump"
"Fanconi syndrome is a renal tubular defect characterized by a generalized reabsorptive defect in the PCT::location of the nephron"
"Which renal tubular defect is associated with increased excretion of nearly all amino acids, glucose, HCO3-, and PO43- and all substances reabsorbed by the PCT Fanconi syndrome"
"What acid-base disorder may be seen with Fanconi syndrome? Metabolic acidosis"
"Which type of renal tubular acidosis may be caused by Fanconi syndrome? Type 2 (proximal renal tubular acidosis)"
"Which renal tubular defect may be caused by Wilson disease? Fanconi syndrome"
"Which renal tubular defect may be caused by metabolism disorders (e.g. glycogen storage disease, tyrosinemia, cystinosis)? Fanconi syndrome"
"What renal tubular defect may be caused by ischemia, multiple myeloma, or lead poisoning? Fanconi syndrome"
"What renal tubular defect may be caused by nephrotoxins/drugs (e.g. ifosfamide, cisplatin, tenofovir, expired tetracyclines)? Fanconi syndrome"
"Bartter syndrome is a renal tubular defect characterized by a defect in the thick ascending limb (of Henle)::location of the nephron"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Bartter syndrome? Autosomal recessive"
"Bartter syndrome is a renal tubular defect that affects the Na+/K+/2Cl- cotransporter"
"Which renal tubular defect presents similarly to chronic loop diuretic use? Bartter syndrome"
"How do serum K+ levels change in Bartter syndrome? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"What acid-base disorder may be seen with Bartter syndrome? Metabolic alkalosis"
"How does urinary excretion of Ca2+ change in Bartter syndrome? Increased (hypercalciuria)"
"How do levels of plasma renin and aldosterone change in Bartter syndrome? Increased (due to decreased Na+ reabsorption)"
"Gitelman syndrome is a renal tubular defect characterized by a defect in the DCT::location of the nephron"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Gitelman syndrome? Autosomal recessive"
"Gitelman syndrome is a renal tubular defect that affects the Na+-Cl- cotransporter"
"Which renal tubular defect presents similarly to lifelong thiazide diuretic use? Gitelman syndrome"
"Compared to Bartter syndrome, Gitelman syndrome is more mild::severity"
"How do serum K+ levels change in Gitelman syndrome? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"How do serum Mg2+ levels change in Gitelman syndrome? Decreased (hypomagnesemia)"
"What acid-base disorder may be seen with Gitelman syndrome? Metabolic alkalosis"
"How does urinary excretion of Ca2+ change in Gitelman syndrome? Decreased (hypocalciuria)"
"How do levels of plasma renin and aldosterone change in Gitelman syndrome? Increased (due to decreased Na+ reabsorption)"
"Liddle syndrome is a renal tubular defect characterized by a gain of function mutation in the ENaC channel in the collecting duct of the nephron"
"Liddle syndrome is a renal tubular defect that increases activity of the epithelial Na+ channel"
"How do serum Na+ levels change in Liddle syndrome? Increased (hypernatremia)"
"Which renal tubular defects present similarly to hyperaldosteronism? Liddle syndrome, Syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess::2"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Liddle syndrome? Autosomal dominant"
"How do serum K+ levels change in Liddle syndrome? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"How does blood pressure change in Liddle syndrome? Increased (hypertension)"
"What acid-base disorder may be seen with Liddle syndrome? Metabolic alkalosis"
"How do serum aldosterone levels change in Liddle syndrome? Decreased"
"How do levels of plasma renin change in Liddle syndrome? Decreased"
"What is the treatment for Liddle syndrome? Amiloride"
"In cells containing mineralocorticoid receptors, cortisol may be converted to cortisone by the enzyme 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase"
"Can cortisol activate mineralocorticoid receptors? Yes"
"Can cortisone activate mineralocorticoid receptors? No"
"In syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess, excess cortisol causes increased mineralocorticoid receptor activity"
"How do serum K+ levels change in syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"How does blood pressure change in syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess? Increased (hypertension)"
"What acid-base disorder may be seen with syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess? Metabolic alkalosis"
"How do serum aldosterone levels change in syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess? Decreased"
"Glycyrrhetinic acid is a substance present in licorice that may block activity of the enzyme 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase"
"Which renal tubular defect may be caused by ingestion of licorice? Syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess"
"The [TF/P]K ratio slightly increases over the course of the PCT"
"The [TF/P]PAH ratio greatly increases over the course of the PCT"
"The [TF/P]creatinine ratio greatly increases over the course of the PCT"
"The [TF/P]urea ratio increases over the course of the PCT"
"Which cell type in the nephron secretes renin? Juxtaglomerular cells"
"Juxtaglomerular (JG) cells are modified smooth muscle cells of the afferent arteriole"
"Which cells of the kidney detect changes in blood pressure? Juxtaglomerular cells"
"In response to decreased blood pressure, the JG cells of the kidney cause increased renin release"
"In response to decreased Na+ delivery, the macula densa cells of the kidney cause increased renin release"
"In response to increased sympathetic tone, there is increased renin release"
"Increased sympathetic tone increases renin release via stimulation of the β1 adrenergic receptors of the JGA"
"β-blockers may decrease BP by inhibiting β1 receptors of the JGA, thus decreasing renin release"
"Angiotensin II causes vaso-constriction of vascular smooth muscle"
"Angiotensin II acts on the posterior pituitary to increase release of ADH"
"Angiotensin II affects baroreceptor function, limiting reflex bradycardia that would normally accompany its pressor effects"
"Which hormones are released in response to increased volume, and thus act as a \check\\" on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system? ANP"
"ADH::aldosterone or ADH primarily regulates osmolarity; may also respond to low volume states"
"Aldosterone::aldosterone or ADH primarily regulates ECF volume and Na+ content"
"The juxtaglomerular apparatus consists of JG cells, macula densa, extraglomerular mesangial cells"
"In response to increased Na+ delivery (e.g. increased GFR/RPF), the macula densa releases ATP (adenosine), which constricts the afferent arterioles"
"In response to decreased Na+ delivery, the macula densa releases PGE2, which relaxes the afferent arterioles"
"In response to decreased Na+ delivery, the macula densa causes increased renin release, which ultimately constricts the efferent arterioles"
"In response to increased Na+ delivery, the macula densa causes decreased renin release, which ultimately relaxes the efferent arterioles"
"Erythropoietin is often supplemented in chronic kidney::organ disease"
"25-OH vitamin D3 is converted to 1,25 (OH)2 vitamin D3 in cells of the PCT of the nephron"
"What renal enzyme facilitates the conversion of 25-OH vitamin D3 to 1,25 (OH)2 vitamin D3? 1α-hydroxylase"
"PTH is a hormone that increases the production of 1,25-(OH)2 D3 via increased 1α-hydroxylase activity"
"Parathyroid hormone is secreted in response to decreased plasma Ca2+ and 1,25-(OH)2 D3"
"Parathyroid hormone is secreted in response to increased plasma PO43-"
"Prostaglandins act via a(n) paracrine mechanism to vaso-dilate the afferent arterioles"
"Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that may be secreted by cells of the PCT of the nephron"
"What effect do low doses of dopamine have on renal afferent and efferent arterioles? Dilation::dilation or constriction"
"What effect do low doses of dopamine have on RBF? Increased"
"What effect do low doses of dopamine have on GFR? Little or no change"
"At higher doses, dopamine acts as a vaso-constrictor of renal arterioles"
"How do levels of plasma renin change in primary hyperaldosteronism? Decreased (negative feedback)"
"How do levels of plasma renin change in a renin-secreting tumor? Increased"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes nausea, malaise, stupor, coma, and seizures? Low Na+ (hyponatremia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes irritability, stupor, coma? High Na+ (hypernatremia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes U waves and flattened T waves on ECG? Low K+ (hypokalemia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbances cause arrhythmias, muscle cramps, spasm, and weakness? Low and high K+::2"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes wide QRS and peaked T waves on ECG? High K+ (hyperkalemia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes tetany, seizures, QT prolongation, twitching, and spasm? Low Ca2+ (hypocalcemia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes stones, bones, groans, and psychiatric overtones? High Ca2+ (hypercalcemia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes tetany, torsades de pointes, and hypokalemia? Low Mg2+ (hypomagnesemia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes decreased DTRs, cardiac arrest, bradycardia, hypotension, and hypocalcemia? High Mg2+ (hypermagnesemia)"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes bone loss, osteomalacia (adults), and rickets (children)? Low PO43-"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes renal stones, metastatic calcifications, and hypocalcemia? High PO43-"
"The causes of high anion gap metabolic acidosis may be remembered with the mnemonic MUDPILES: M: methanol (formic acid) U: uremia D: diabetic ketoacidosis P: propylene glycol I: iron tablets or isoniazid L: lactic acidosis E: ethylene glycol (-> oxalic acid) S: salicylates (late)"
"The causes of normal anion gap metabolic acidosis may be remembered with the mnemonic HARDASS: H: hyperalimentation (artificial supply of nutrition) A: Addison disease R: renal tubular acidosis D: diarrhea A: acetazolamide S: spironolactone S: saline infusion"
"Acidemia is characterized by arterial pH < 7.35"
"Alkalemia is characterized by arterial pH > 7.45"
"What acid-base disorder may be caused by vomiting? Metabolic alkalosis"
"Renal tubular acidosis is a group of disorders of the renal tubules that lead to normal anion gap (hyperchloremic) metabolic acidosis"
"Distal renal tubular acidosis is also known as type 1 RTA"
"Distal renal tubular acidosis is characterized by a urine pH > 5.5"
"Distal renal tubular acidosis is due to a defect in the ability of α-intercalated cells to secrete H+"
"Inability to secrete H+ by the α-intercalated cells (distal RTA) results in no new HCO3- generation"
"Distal renal tubular acidosis is associated with hypo-kalemia"
"Distal renal tubular acidosis is associated with increased risk for calcium phosphate kidney stones"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by amphotericin B toxicity? Distal RTA (type 1)"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by analgesic nephropathy? Distal RTA (type 1)"
"Which renal tubular acidosis is highly associated with autoimmune diseases? Distal RTA (type 1)"
"Proximal renal tubular acidosis is also known as type 2 RTA"
"Proximal renal tubular acidosis is characterized by a urine pH < 5.5"
"Proximal renal tubular acidosis is due to a defect in the ability of PCT cells to reabsorb HCO3-"
"Which renal tubular acidosis is associated with increased urinary excretion of HCO3-? Proximal RTA (type 2)"
"Proximal renal tubular acidosis is associated with hypo-kalemia"
"There is an increased risk for hypophosphatemic rickets with proximal renal tubular acidosis due to Fanconi Syndrome"
"Fanconi Syndrome and Multiple Myeloma can both cause proximal (type 2) renal tubular acidosis"
"Proximal renal tubular acidosis may be caused by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, aminoglycosides::antimicrobial, and lead::metal"
"Hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis is also known as type 4 RTA"
"Hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis may be characterized by a urine pH < 5.5"
"In hyperkalemic RTA, hypoaldosteronism causes hyperkalemia"
"In hyperkalemic RTA, hyperkalemia causes decreased NH3 synthesis in the PCT"
"In hyperkalemic RTA, decreased NH3 synthesis in the PCT causes decreased NH4+ excretion"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by decreased aldosterone production? Hyperkalemic (type 4) RTA"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by aldosterone resistance? Hyperkalemic (type 4) RTA"
"The presence of casts in the urine indicates that hematuria/pyuria is of glomerular or renal tubular origin"
"What pathologies are characterized by hematuria with no casts? Bladder cancer, Kidney stones::2"
"What pathology is characterized by pyuria with no casts? Acute cystitis"
"Which type of cast is classically seen in glomerulonephritis and hypertensive emergency? RBC casts"
"What type of cast may be seen with transplant rejection and tubulointerstitial inflammation? WBC casts"
"Fatty casts (\oval fat bodies\\") are often associated with the \\"Maltese cross\\" sign\""
"What type of cast may be seen in end-stage renal disease and chronic renal failure? Waxy casts"
"Hyaline casts are nonspecific and are often seen in concentrated urine samples (can be a normal finding)"
"A \focal\\" glomerular disorder involves < 50% of glomeruli\""
"A \diffuse\\" glomerular disorder involves > 50% of glomeruli\""
"A \proliferative\\" glomerular disorder is characterized by hypercellular glomeruli\""
"A \membranous\\" glomerular disorder is characterized by thickening of the glomerular basement membrane\""
"Nephritic syndrome occurs due to GBM disruption"
"Is diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis (DPGN) a nephritic or nephrotic syndrome? Can be either or both"
"Which two pathologies may present as nephritic and/or nephrotic syndrome? DPGN, MPGN"
"Hydronephrosis is the distention or dilation of the renal pelvis and calyces"
"Hydronephrosis is usually caused by urinary tract obstruction"
"Less common causes of hydronephrosis include retroperitoneal fibrosis, vesicoureteral reflux, and Unilateral Renal Agenesis"
"In hydronephrosis, the dilation occurs proximal::proximal or distal to the site of pathology"
"Is serum creatinine usually elevated in unilateral hydronephrosis? No"
"Hydronephrosis may lead to the compression and possible atrophy of the renal cortex and medulla"
"Renal oncocytoma is a benign epithelial cell tumor arising from the collecting ducts::location"
"Is renal oncocytoma benign or malignant? Benign"
"Which renal tumor is characterized by large eosinophilic cells with abundant mitochondria, but without perinuclear clearing? Renal oncocytoma"
"Renal oncocytoma presents with painless hematuria, flank pain, and a(n) abdominal mass"
"Diffuse cortical necrosis is an acute generalized cortical infarction of both kidneys"
"Diffuse cortical necrosis is likely due to a combination of vasospasm and DIC"
"Diffuse cortical necrosis is a renal pathology associated with obstetric catastrophes and septic shock"
"Stress incontinence is characterized by leakage when there is an increased intra-abdominal pressure (e.g. sneezing, lifting)"
"Vaginal delivery, prostate surgery / hysterectomy, post-menopausal state, obesity increase risk for stress incontinence"
"Stress incontinence is due to outlet incompetence (e.g. urethral hypermobility or intrinsic sphincter deficiency)"
"Stress incontinence is associated with a positive bladder stress test"
"The first line treatment for stress incontinence includes strengthening pelvic floor muscles (e.g. Kegels)"
"Treatment for stress incontinence may include weight loss and pessaries"
"Urgency incontinence is due to an overactive bladder (detrusor muscle overstimulation)"
"Urgency incontinence is characterized by leakage with the need to void immediately"
"Treatment for urgency incontinence includes Kegel exercises and bladder training"
"Urgency incontinence may be treated with M3 antagonists or β3 agonists"
"Mixed incontinence has features of both stress and urgency incontinence"
"Overflow incontinence is due to incomplete emptying, due to detrusor underactivity or outlet obstruction"
"Overflow incontinence is characterized by leakage with overfilling of the bladder"
"Overflow incontinence is associated with increased post-void residual on catheterization or ultrasound"
"Treatment for overflow incontinence includes catheterization and/or relief of obstruction (e.g. α-blockers for BPH)"
"Buerger disease may also be referred to as thromboangiitis obliterans"
"Kawasaki disease may also be referred to as mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis used to be referred to as Wegeners granulomatosis"
"Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis may present with paranasal sinus abnormalities and skin nodules / palpable purpura"
"Secondary hyperaldosteronism is seen in patients with juxtaglomerular cell tumor due to independent activation of the RAAS"
"Secondary hyperaldosteronism is seen in patients with renovascular hypertension due to independent activation of the RAAS"
"Loop diuretics exert their effects on the thick ascending limb of Henle::location of the nephron"
"The Na+-K+ ATPase is located on the basolateral membrane of the thick ascending limb (loop of Henle)"
"The Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter is present on the luminal membrane of the thick ascending limb (of Henle)"
"The thick ascending limb (of Henle) is impermeable to water (permeability)"
"What drug class do furosemide, bumetanide, and torsemide belong to? Loop diuretics"
"Loop diuretics block the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter on the luminal membrane of the thick ascending limb"
"What class of diuretics are the most effective? Loop diuretics"
"What drug class does ethacrynic acid belong to? Loop diuretics"
"Loop diuretics decrease the lumen positive potential, thus promoting the excretion of Ca2+ and Mg2+"
"Loop diuretics may cause hypo-magnesemia as an adverse effect"
"Loop diuretics may cause hypo-calcemia as an adverse effect"
"Loop diuretics induce expression of COX-2, which leads to synthesis of prostaglandins (e.g. PGE)"
"Increased prostaglandin (e.g. loop diuretics) causes vaso-dilation of the afferent arteriole"
"What class of drugs may inhibit the renal-protective aspect of loop diuretics? NSAIDs (decreased prostaglandin synthesis)"
"Loop diuretics are the 1st line treatment for the symptomatic treatment of acute decompensated heart failure with fluid overload"
"Loop diuretics may be used to treat the symptoms of pulmonary edema in an acute heart failure exacerbation"
"Do loop diuretics prolong life in heart failure? No"
"Loop diuretics may be used to treat ascites in liver failure (e.g. cirrhosis)"
"Loop diuretics can be useful in the treatment of hypertension, especially if other comorbidities are present (e.g. heart failure with edema)"
"Loop diuretics may be used in the treatment of hyper-calcemia"
"What class of renal disorders may be treated with loop diuretics? Nephrotic syndrome"
"What effect may loop diuretics have on serum K+ levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"Loop diuretics may cause oto-toxicity as an adverse effect"
"Which loop diuretic is more ototoxic, furosemide or ethacrynic acid? Ethacrynic acid"
"Most loop diuretics are sulfa drugs and thus may cause adverse reactions in allergic patients"
"Ethacrynic acid is a non-sulfonamide loop diuretic"
"What renal pathology may be caused by loop diuretics? Interstitial nephritis"
"Loop and thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia, which may lead to precipitation of gout"
"What acid-base disorder may be caused by loop diuretics? Metabolic alkalosis"
"The potent diuretic effects of loop diuretics may lead to significant volume loss and thus dehydration"
"Ethacrynic acid is used for diuresis in patients allergic to sulfa drugs, who thus cannot tolerate other loop diuretics"
"Loop diuretics cause decreased::increased or decreased hypertonicity of the renal medulla"
"Decreased medullary hypertonicity (e.g. due to loop diuretics) results in an inability to concentrate urine"
"Thiazide diuretics exert their effects on the DCT::location of the nephron"
"The Na+-Cl- cotransporter is present on the luminal membrane of the DCT"
"In the DCT of the nephron, Ca2+ is reabsorbed by an apical Ca2+ channel and a basolateral Na+-Ca2+ exchanger"
"The early distal convoluted tubule is impermeable to water (permeability)"
"Thiazide diuretics decrease the diluting capacity of the nephron"
"What drug class does hydrochlorothiazide belong to? Thiazide diuretics"
"What drug class do chlorthalidone, metolazone and indapamide belong to? Thiazide diuretics"
"Thiazide diuretics block the Na+-Cl- cotransporter on the luminal membrane of the DCT"
"Thiazide diuretics increase Ca2+ reabsorption (excretion or reabsorption)"
"Thiazide diuretics are a 1st line agent for treatment of mild or moderate hypertension"
"Thiazide diuretics can be useful in the symptomatic treatment of heart failure (loop diuretics are first line)"
"Thiazide diuretics may be useful in the treatment of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus"
"Thiazide diuretics can be used to prevent calcium kidney stones"
"Thiazide diuretics may be useful for attenuating bone loss in patients with osteoporosis"
"Thiazide diuretics may be useful in the treatment of idiopathic hypercalciuria"
"Thiazide diuretics may cause hyper-calcemia as an adverse effect"
"What effect may thiazide diuretics have on serum glucose levels? Increased (hyperglycemia)"
"What effect may thiazide diuretics have on serum lipid levels (e.g. cholesterol, triglycerides)? Increased (hyperlipidemia)"
"Thiazide diuretics may decrease renal excretion of lithium, which is commonly used as an anti-psychotic drug"
"What effect may thiazide diuretics have on serum K+ levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"Thiazide diuretics may cause hypo-natremia as an adverse effect"
"Thiazide diuretics are sulfa drugs and thus may rarely cause allergic reactions"
"What acid-base disorder may be caused by thiazide diuretics? Metabolic alkalosis"
"K+ sparing diuretics exert their effects on the cortical collecting tubules::location of the nephron"
"Which part of the nephron do mineralocorticoids exert their effects? Collecting duct"
"The principal cells of the collecting duct are the major site of Na+, K+, and H2O transport"
"Na+ is reabsorbed on the luminal membrane of the collecting duct through epithelial Na+ channels"
"K+ channels on the luminal membrane of the principal cells of the collecting duct secrete::absorb/secrete K+"
"Reabsorption of Na+ in the collecting duct creates a(n) negative luminal potential that facilitates K+ excretion"
"The α-intercalated cells of collecting duct are the major site of H+ secretion"
"H+ is secreted by H+-ATPase on the luminal membrane of the α-intercalated cells of the collecting duct"
"Is the mineralocorticoid receptor an intracellular or membrane receptor? Intracellular"
"Triamterene and amiloride are K+ sparing diuretics that act by blocking Na+ reabsorption through ENaCs"
"Eplerenone and spironolactone are K+ sparing diuretics that act by competitively antagonizing the mineralocorticoid receptor"
"K+ sparing diuretics are useful in the treatment of primary and secondary hyper-aldosteronism"
"K+ sparing diuretics (e.g. spironolactone, eplerenone) are useful in the treatment of heart failure, especially in combination with loop diuretics"
"Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists prevent myocardial remodeling induced by high levels of aldosterone"
"Do mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (e.g. spironolactone, eplerenone) prolong life in heart failure? Yes"
"Amiloride, a K+ sparing diuretic, is useful in the treatment of Li+-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus"
"Amiloride and triamterene are K+ sparing diuretics that may be used to treat Liddle's syndrome, which is characterized by overactive ENaCs"
"Which ion depletion may be treated with K+ sparing diuretics? K+ depletion (hypokalemia)"
"Spironolactone, a K+ sparing diuretic, may be used in the treatment of hepatic ascites"
"One adverse effect of K+ sparing diuretics is hyperkalemia, which increases risk for arrhythmia"
"What acid-base disorder may be caused by K+-sparing diuretics? Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"What type of renal tubular acidosis may be caused by K+ sparing diuretics? Type 4 RTA"
"Type 4 renal tubular acidosis is associated with hyper-kalemia"
"Spironolactone may inhibit 17α-hydroxylase, an enzyme in the testosterone synthesis pathway"
"Spironolactone, a K+ sparing diuretic, may be used to treat symptoms of androgen excess in polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS)"
"Spironolactone may ALSO have anti-androgenic effects via direct antagonism of the androgen receptor"
"What adverse anti-androgenic effect may be caused by spironolactone use in males? Gynecomastia"
"Spironolactone may cause impotence and decreased libido as adverse effects"
"Which diuretics cause an increase in urine NaCl? All diuretics :)"
"What classes of diuretics are characterized by increased urine K+? Loop and thiazide diuretics::2"
"What classes of diuretics are characterized by decreased blood pH (acidemia)? Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors, K+ sparing diuretics::2"
"What classes of diuretics cause increased blood pH (alkalemia)? Loop and thiazide diuretics::2"
"In a low K+ state, H+ is exchanged for Na+ in the basolateral membrane of cortical collecting tubule, causing alkalosis and \paradoxical aciduria\\"\""
"What class of diuretics is characterized by increased urine Ca2+? Loop diuretics"
"What class of diuretics is characterized by decreased urine Ca2+? Thiazide diuretics"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is most commonly seen in HIV patients? Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis"
"Which type of kidney stone is associated with staghorn calculi in children? Cystine kidney stones"
"Where in the cell does hexosemonophosphate (HMP) shunt activity occur? Cytoplasm"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of the HMP shunt? Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is regulated via positive feedback by NADP+"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) is regulated via negative feedback by NADPH"
"One function of the HMP shunt is to provide a source of NADPH, which is required for reductive reactions"
"One function of the HMP shunt is to provide a source of ribose, which is used for nucleotide synthesis and glycolytic intermediates"
"The HMP shunt may be referred to as the pentose phosphate pathway"
"Does activity of the HMP shunt use ATP? No"
"Does activity of the HMP shunt produce ATP? No"
"HMP shunt activity is primarily found in the adrenal glands, liver, lactating mammary glands (females), and RBCs"
"Glucose-6-phosphate is ultimately converted to ribulose-5-phosphate via the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase"
"Conversion of glucose-6-P into ribulose-5-P (HMP shunt) produces one molecule of CO2 and two molecules of NADPH"
"Is the conversion of glucose-6-P into ribulose-5-P (HMP shunt) a reversible or irreversible reaction? Irreversible"
"Ribulose-5-phosphate may be converted to ribose-5-phosphate via the enzyme phosphopentose isomerase (HMP shunt)"
"Is the conversion of ribulose-5-P into ribose-5-P (HMP shunt) a reversible or irreversible reaction? Reversible"
"In the liver, the HMP shunt provides a source of NADPH for biosynthesis of fatty acids, cholesterol, and steroids"
"In neutrophils, the HMP shunt provides a source of NADPH for NADPH oxidase activity, which is used for respiratory burst"
"In the RBCs, the HMP shunt provides a source of NADPH for reduction of H2O2 (via reduced glutathione)"
"Oxidized glutathione may be converted to reduced glutathione via the enzyme glutathione reductase"
"The enzyme glutathione reductase requires a molecule of NADPH, which is provided by the activity of the enzyme G6PD"
"Conversion of glucose-6-phosphate to 6-phosphogluconate, via G6PD, produces a molecule of NADPH"
"Reduced glutathione may be converted to oxidized glutathione via the enzyme glutathione peroxidase"
"What is the molecular formula for oxidized glutathione? Glutathione-sulfur-sulfur-Glutathione (GS-SG)"
"What is the molecular formula for reduced glutathione? 2x Glutathione-sulfhydryl (G-SH)"
"H2O2 may be converted to H2O via the enzyme glutathione peroxidase"
"The enzyme glutathione peroxidase requires a reducing agent, which is provided in the form of reduced glutathione (G-SH)"
"What inclusion body may be seen inside the RBCs of patients with G6PD deficiency? Heinz bodies"
"Heinz bodies form due to precipitation of denatured globin chains within RBCs"
"Which poisonous substance is characterized by a \bitter almond\\" odor? Cyanide\""
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of fatty acid synthesis? Acetyl-CoA carboxylase"
"Acetyl-CoA carboxylase is regulated via negative feedback by glucagon and palmitoyl CoA"
"Where in the cell does fatty acid synthesis occur? Cytoplasm"
"Fatty acid synthesis requires acetyl CoA, which is provided directly from citrate"
"Fatty acid synthesis requires NADPH, which is provided by the HMP shunt and malic enzyme"
"In the cytosol, malate may be converted to pyruvate via the enzyme malic enzyme (fatty acid synthesis)"
"Conversion of malate to pyruvate via malic enzyme produces a molecule of NADPH (fatty acid synthesis)"
"Fatty acid synthesis predominantly occurs in the liver, lactating mammary glands (women), and adipose tissue"
"The first step of fatty acid synthesis is transport of citrate from the mitochondria to the cytosol through its shuttle"
"In the cytosol, citrate may be converted to acetyl-CoA via the enzyme ATP citrate lyase (fatty acid synthesis)"
"Acetyl-CoA is converted to malonyl-CoA via the enzyme acetyl-CoA carboxylase (fatty acid synthesis)"
"Acetyl-CoA carboxylase requires ATP, biotin, and CO2"
"Malonyl-CoA may be converted to palmitate via the enzyme fatty acid synthase"
"Which enzyme of the fatty acid synthesis pathway utilizes NADPH? Fatty acid synthase"
"Palmitate is a(n) 16::#-carbon fatty acid"
"What two fatty acids are essential in humans? Linoleic acid (omega-6), linolenic acid (omega-3)"
"Fatty Acid Nomenclature: C18:2 (9,12) is a(n) 18-carbon fatty acid with two double bonds"
"In naturally occurring fatty acids, double bonds are in the cis::cis or trans configuration"
"When membrane phospholipids are in the trans (cis or trans) configuration, they cause decreased membrane fluidity"
"Are fatty acids polar or nonpolar? Non-Polar"
"Is glycerol polar or nonpolar? Polar"
"Triglycerides are composed of three fatty acids and one glycerol"
"Are triglycerides polar or nonpolar? Non-polar"
"What type of bond exists between fatty acids and glycerol (e.g. triglycerides)? Ester bonds"
"What type of enzyme cleaves triglyceride ester bonds? Lipases"
"What type of enzyme cleaves phospholipid ester bonds? Phospholipases"
"Is cholesterol polar or nonpolar? Non-Polar"
"Is cholesterol ester polar or nonpolar? Non-polar"
"What is the purpose of converting cholesterol into cholesterol ester? More space-efficient (anhydrous)"
"Lipoproteins are a physical complex of lipids and proteins (apoproteins)"
"Apoprotein A-1 is an activator of the enzyme LCAT (lecithin cholesterol acyltransferase)"
"Apoprotein A-1 is a major component of high density lipoprotein"
"Apo B-48 is found only on particles originating from the intestines, whereas Apo B-100 is found only on particles originating from the liver"
"Apoprotein E mediates chylomicron remnant uptake in the liver"
"Apoprotein E may be found on every lipoprotein except LDL"
"Apoprotein C-II is a cofactor and activator of the enzyme LPL (lipoprotein lipase)"
"Which three lipoproteins is apoprotein C-II found on? HDL, VLDL, chylomicrons"
"Apoprotein B-48 mediates chylomicron secretion by the intestines"
"Which lipoprotein is apoprotein B-48 found on? Chylomicrons (and their remnants)"
"Apoprotein B-100 binds the LDL receptor on the liver"
"Which three lipoproteins is apoprotein B-100 found on? VLDL, IDL, LDL"
"The intestines package triglycerides and cholesterol esters into chylomicrons, which initially enter the lymph"
"In the lymph, chylomicrons only express apoprotein B-48"
"What is the main component of chylomicrons? Triglycerides"
"From the lymph, chylomicrons enter the blood via the thoracic duct"
"In the blood, chylomicrons pick up apoprotein C-II and E from circulating HDL"
"Once in the vicinity of adipocytes, apoprotein C-II on the chylomicron activates the enzyme lipoprotein lipase (LPL)"
"The triglycerides inside the chylomicron are broken down into fatty acids by lipoprotein lipase in the vicinity of the adipocytes (or peripheral tissue)"
"Once inside the adipocyte, fatty acids are reconverted into triglycerides"
"As triglycerides are removed from the chylomicron, the chylomicron shrinks, forming a(n) chylomicron remnant"
"The chylomicron remnant expresses only apolipoprotein B-48 and E on its surface"
"What happens to apoprotein C-II on the chylomicron as it forms a chylomicron remnant? Recycled back to HDL"
"Once in the vicinity of the liver, the chylomicron remnant binds the remnant receptor via apoprotein E"
"The liver packages triglycerides and cholesterol into VLDLs, which enter the blood"
"Initially, VLDLs only express apoprotein B-100"
"What is the main component of VLDLs? Triglycerides"
"In the blood, VLDLs pick up apoprotein C-II and E from circulating HDL"
"Once in the vicinity of adipocytes, apoprotein C-II on the VLDL activates the enzyme lipoprotein lipase (LPL)"
"The triglycerides inside the VLDL are broken down into fatty acids by lipoprotein lipase in the vicinity of the adipocytes (or peripheral tissue)"
"As triglycerides are removed from the VLDLs, the VLDL shrinks, forming IDL"
"The IDL expresses only apolipoprotein B-100 and E on its surface"
"What happens to apoprotein C-II on the VLDL as it forms an IDL? Recycled back to HDL"
"Once in the vicinity of the liver, the IDL may directly bind a(n) LDL receptor via apoprotein B-100"
"Further removal of triglycerides from IDL, via the enzyme hepatic TG lipase, leads to the formation of LDL"
"LDL only expresses a single copy of apoprotein B-100 on its surface"
"What is the main component of LDLs? Cholesterol ester"
"Which two organs produce nascent HDL? Liver, Intestines"
"The enzyme LCAT may convert cholesterol to cholesterol ester in the blood in the presence of apoprotein A (found on HDL)"
"Cholesterol ester inside of mature HDL may be transferred to VLDL, IDL, or LDL via the enzyme cholesterol ester transport protein (CETP)"
"Which lipid transport enzyme is responsible for the degradation of triglycerides in the small intestine? Pancreatic lipase"
"Which lipid transport enzyme is responsible for the degradation of triglycerides in the chylomicrons and VLDLs? Lipoprotein lipase"
"Lipoprotein lipase is regulated via positive feedback by insulin and apoprotein C-II"
"Which lipid transport enzyme is responsible for the degradation of remaining triglycerides in IDLs? Hepatic TG lipase"
"Which lipid transport enzyme is responsible for the degradation of triglycerides stored in adipocytes? Hormone-sensitive lipase"
"Which lipoproteins carry the most cholesterol? LDL and HDL::2"
"Which lipoprotein is secreted by intestinal epithelial cells and delivers dietary TGs to peripheral tissue? Chylomicrons"
"Which lipoprotein is secreted by the liver and delivers hepatic TGs to peripheral tissue? VLDL"
"Which lipoprotein is formed by the degradation of VLDL and delivers TGs and cholesterol to the liver? IDL"
"Which lipoprotein is formed by modification of IDL and delivers hepatic cholesterol to peripheral tissue? LDL"
"Which lipoprotein mediates reverse cholesterol transport from the periphery to the liver? HDL"
"Which lipoprotein is a repository for apoproteins C and E? HDL"
"What is the effect of alcohol on HDL synthesis? Increased synthesis"
"On the cellular surface of hepatocytes, the LDL particle binds a(n) LDL receptor via apoprotein B-100"
"Following binding of LDL to its LDL receptor, the ligand-receptor complex is endocytosed in clathrin-coated pits"
"The LDL-containing clathrin-coated pits fuse with lysosomes, which break down cholesterol ester into cholesterol"
"What happens to most of the endocytosed LDL receptors? Recycled to cell membrane"
"Inside the hepatocyte, cholesterol may be converted to cholesterol ester via the enzyme acyl cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) for storage"
"Increased levels of cholesterol inside the hepatocyte leads to decreased activity of the enzyme HMG-CoA reductase"
"Increased levels of cholesterol inside the hepatocyte leads to increased activity of the enzyme ACAT"
"Increased levels of cholesterol inside the hepatocyte leads to decreased LDL-receptor gene expression"
"In the blood, free radicals may take an electron from apoprotein B-100 on LDL, forming oxidized LDL"
"Oxidized LDL has a defect in its single apoB-100 and is no longer recognized; consequently, it is consumed by macrophages"
"Oxidized LDL is consumed by macrophages via the scavenger receptor-A receptor"
"Is scavenger receptor A on macrophages down-regulated by cholesterol? No"
"Macrophages bloated with cholesterol eventually form foam cells within the subendothelium"
"The foam cell from the cholesterol-laden macrophages eventually dies, causing cholesterol to precipitate out, forming a(n) atherosclerotic plaque"
"The precipitated cholesterol in blood vessels may be picked up by HDL (lipoprotein) and esterified to cholesterol ester"
"HDL may directly bring cholesterol back to the liver via the scavenger receptor B-1 receptor (reverse cholesterol transport)"
"Type I hyperlipoproteinemia is also known as familial hyperchylomicronemia syndrome"
"What is the mode of inheritance of type I hyperlipoproteinemia? Autosomal recessive"
"Type I lipoproteinemia is due to a(n) LPL or apo-CII deficiency"
"Which serum lipoprotein is elevated in type I hyperlipoproteinemia? Chylomicrons"
"Which serum lipids are elevated in type I hyperlipoproteinemia? Triglycerides and cholesterol::2"
"Type I hyperlipoproteinemia commonly presents with red-orange eruptive/pruritic xanthomas"
"Which type of familial dyslipidemia is associated with pancreatitis and hepatosplenomegaly? Type I (hyperchylomicronemia)"
"Does type I familial dyslipidemia cause an increased risk for atherosclerosis? No"
"Type I familial dyslipidemia is characterized by a \creamy\\" layer in supernatant\""
"Type IIa familial dyslipidemia is also known as familial hypercholesterolemia"
"What is the mode of inheritance of type IIa familial dyslipidemia? Autosomal dominant"
"Type IIa familial dyslipidemia is due to either: - absent or defective LDL receptors - defective Apo B-100"
"Which serum lipoprotein is elevated in type IIa familial dyslipidemia? LDL"
"Which serum lipid is elevated in type IIa familial dyslipidemia? Cholesterol"
"Type II familial dyslipidemia commonly presents with tendinous xanthomas, especially on the Achilles tendon"
"Which type of familial dyslipidemia is associated with corneal arcus? Type IIa (familial hypercholesterolemia)"
"Does type IIa familial dyslipidemia cause an increased risk for atherosclerosis? Yes, accelerated atherosclerosis may cause MI before age 20"
"Patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (1:500) have cholesterol levels of ~ 300 mg/dL"
"Patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (very rare) have cholesterol levels of ~ 700+ mg/dL"
"Type IV familial dyslipidemia is also known as familial hypertriglyceridemia"
"What is the mode of inheritance of type IV familial dyslipidemia? Autosomal dominant"
"Type IV familial dyslipidemia is due to hepatic overproduction of VLDL"
"Which serum lipoprotein is elevated in type IV familial dyslipidemia? VLDL"
"Which serum lipid is elevated in type IV familial dyslipidemia? Triglycerides"
"Patients with type IV familial dyslipidemia often have triglyceride levels around 200 to 500 mg/dL, which typically is not enough to cause pancreatitis"
"Cholesterol synthesis begins with acetyl CoA"
"Where in the cell does cholesterol synthesis occur? Cytoplasm"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme for cholesterol synthesis? HMG CoA reductase"
"HMG CoA reductase is regulated via positive feedback by insulin and thyroxine (T4)"
"HMG CoA reductase is regulated via negative feedback by glucagon and cholesterol"
"HMG CoA is converted to mevalonate via the enzyme HMG CoA reductase (cholesterol synthesis)"
"HMG CoA reductase requires two molecules of NADPH"
"Farnesyl PPi is an intermediate of cholesterol synthesis that is important for synthesis of coenzyme Q (ETC)"
"Dolichol PPi is an intermediate of cholesterol synthesis that is important for N glycosylation of proteins"
"What substance is the primary regulator of membrane fluidity? Cholesterol"
"What substance is the precursor to bile acids, steroids, and vitamin D? Cholesterol"
"What % of plasma cholesterol is esterified by the enzyme LCAT? 67% (2/3rds)"
"What class of drugs inhibits the enzyme HMG CoA reductase? Statins"
"Are statins competitive or non-competitive inhibitors of HMG-CoA reductase? Reversible or irreversible? Reversible competitive inhibitors"
"In adipose tissue, triglycerides are broken down into glycerol and fatty acids by the enzyme hormone sensitive lipase"
"Hormone sensitive lipase is regulated via positive feedback by epinephrine and cortisol"
"Glycerol, from triglyceride breakdown, travels to the liver and is converted to glucose via the process of gluconeogenesis"
"Fatty acids, from triglyceride breakdown, are broken down into acetyl CoA via the process of β-oxidation"
"In preparation for β-oxidation, fatty acids in the cytosol are converted to fatty acyl-CoA via the enzyme fatty acyl-CoA synthetase"
"In the intermembrane space, fatty acyl-CoA is converted to fatty acyl-carnitine via the enzyme carnitine palmitoyl transferase 1 (CPT1)"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of fatty acid β-oxidation? Carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1 (CPT-1)"
"Where in the cell does β-oxidation occur? Mitochondria"
"Carnitine acyltransferase-1 (CPT-1) is regulated via negative feedback by malonyl CoA"
"Fatty acyl-carnitine is transported from the intermembrane space into the mitochondrial matrix via the carnitine transporter"
"Fatty acyl-carnitine is converted into fatty acyl-CoA via the enzyme carnitine palmitoyl transferase 2 (CPT2)"
"Fatty acyl-CoA is broken down into molecules of acetyl CoA via the enzyme fatty acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (β-oxidation)"
"Each cycle of β-oxidation produces one molecule of FADH2 and one molecule of NADH"
"The acetyl CoA generated through β-oxidation is used for ketogenesis (liver) or the TCA cycle"
"Primary carnitine deficiency is an inherited defect in the transport of long chain fatty acids into the mitochondria"
"Primary carnitine deficiency is characterized by muscle weakness and hypotonia, which is provoked by prolonged exercise (especially if fasting)"
"Primary carnitine deficiency may present with myoglobin-uria"
"Muscle biopsy of a patient with primary carnitine deficiency shows elevated triglycerides"
"The oil red O and sudan black stains are useful for staining lipids"
"The PAS stain is useful for staining glycogen"
"Medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is characterized by an inability to break down medium-sized fatty acids"
"What is the mode of inheritance of medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency? Autosomal recessive"
"Medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is characterized by the accumulation of 8 to 10-carbon acyl carnitines in the blood"
"Medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is characterized by hypo-ketotic, hypo-glycemia"
"Medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency may cause dicarboxylic acidemia/aciduria due to omega oxidation of fatty acids"
"Which type of acyl-CoA dehydrogenase is used to breakdown 8-10 carbon fatty acyl-CoA? Medium (medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase)"
"Medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency may present in infancy or early childhood with vomiting, hyperammonemia, lethargy, seizures, coma, and liver dysfunction"
"Treatment for medium chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency includes avoiding fasting"
"Where in the cell does ketogenesis occur? Mitochondria"
"In which organ does ketogenesis occur? Liver"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of ketogenesis? HMG-CoA synthase"
"What are the three ketone bodies? 1. Acetoacetate 2. β-hydroxybutyrate 3. Acetone"
"Ketogenesis begins with acetyl-CoA, which is provided by β-oxidation of fatty acids"
"Acetyl-CoA is converted to HMG-CoA via the enzyme HMG-CoA synthase (ketogenesis)"
"HMG-CoA may be converted to acetoacetate via the enzyme HMG-CoA lyase (ketogenesis)"
"Acetoacetate may spontaneously be converted to acetone, which is expired in the lungs"
"In the liver, acetoacetate may be converted to β-hydroxybutyrate, which then travels to extrahepatic tissues (ketone body metabolism)"
"In extrahepatic tissues, β-hydroxybutyrate may be converted back to acetoacetate via the enzyme β-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase"
"In extrahepatic tissues, acetoacetate is activated to acetoacetyl-CoA via the enzyme thiophorase (ketone body metabolism)"
"The acetyl-CoA from acetoacetyl-CoA (ketone body metabolism) is used to generate energy via the Kreb's cycle"
"How many molecules of acetyl CoA are produced from a single ketone body? Two"
"Ketone bodies are primarily used for energy in the brain (starvation state), muscle, and kidney"
"Ketogenesis occurs in alcoholism due to excess NADH, which causes shunting of oxaloacetate to malate"
"Ketoacidosis may cause the breath to have a(n) fruity odor due to exhaled acetone"
"Can a urine test for ketones detect acetoacetate? Yes"
"Can a urine test for ketones detect β-hydroxybutyrate? No"
"A ceramide attached to a sugar (e.g. glucose, galactose) is known as a(n) cerebroside"
"A cerebroside attached to an additional sugar and sialic acid is a(n) ganglioside"
"A ceramide attached to phosphate and choline is a(n) sphingomyelin"
"GM2 ganglioside is converted to GM3 via the enzyme hexosaminidase A"
"The enzyme hexosaminidase A is deficient in Tay-Sachs disease"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Tay-Sachs disease? Autosomal recessive"
"What substrate accumulates in the lysosomes of a patient with Tay-Sachs disease? GM2 ganglioside"
"What ocular finding is classically seen in Tay-Sachs disease? \Cherry-red\\" spot on macula\""
"Does Tay-Sachs disease present with hepatosplenomegaly? No"
"Tay-Sachs disease may present with progressive neurodegeneration and developmental delay"
"Tay-Sachs disease is characterized by an \onion-skin\\" appearance to the lysosomes\""
"Sphingomyelin is converted to ceramide via the enzyme sphingomyelinase"
"The enzyme sphingomyelinase is deficient in Niemann Pick disease"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Niemann Pick disease? Autosomal recessive"
"What substrate accumulates in the lysosomes of a patient with Niemann Pick disease? Sphingomyelin"
"What ocular finding is classically seen in Niemann Pick disease? \Cherry-red\\" spot on macula\""
"Does Niemann Pick disease present with hepatosplenomegaly? Yes"
"Niemann Pick disease may present with progressive neurodegeneration"
"Niemann Pick disease is characterized by foam cells, which are lipid-laden macrophages"
"Glucocerebroside is converted to ceramide via the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (β-glucosidase)"
"The enzyme glucocerebrosidase (β-glucosidase) is deficient in Gaucher disease"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Gaucher disease? Autosomal recessive"
"What substrate accumulates in the lysosomes of a patient with Gaucher disease? Glucocerebroside"
"Does Gaucher disease present with hepatosplenomegaly? Yes"
"Gaucher disease is associated with avascular necrosis of the femur"
"Gaucher disease is characterized by \Gaucher cells\\" which are lipid-laden macrophages resembling crumpled tissue paper\""
"Ceramide trihexoside is converted to glucocerebroside via the enzyme α-galactosidase A"
"The enzyme α-galactosidase A is deficient in Fabry disease"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Fabry disease? X-linked recessive"
"What substrate accumulates in the lysosomes of a patient with Fabry disease? Ceramide trihexoside (globotriaosylceramide)"
"Early Fabry disease presents with a triad of peripheral neuropathy, angiokeratomas, and hypohidrosis"
"Late Fabry disease presents with progressive renal failure and cardiovascular disease"
"Galactocerebroside is converted to ceramide via the enzyme galactocerebrosidase"
"The enzyme galactocerebrosidase is deficient in Krabbe disease"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Krabbe disease? Autosomal recessive"
"What substrates accumulate in the lysosomes of a patient with Krabbe disease? Galactocerebroside and psychosine"
"What ocular pathology does Krabbe disease often present with? Optic atrophy"
"Krabbe disease often presents with peripheral neuropathy and developmental delay"
"Sulfatides are converted to galactocerebroside via the enzyme arylsulfatase A"
"The enzyme arylsulfatase A is deficient in metachromatic leukodystrophy"
"What is the mode of inheritance of metachromatic leukodystrophy? Autosomal recessive"
"What substrate accumulates in the lysosomes of a patient with metachromatic leukodystrophy? Cerebroside sulfate"
"The enzyme α-L-iduronidase is deficient in HurLer syndrome"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Hurler syndrome? Autosomal recessive"
"What substrates accumulate in the lysosomes of a patient with Hurler syndrome? Heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate"
"Does Hurler syndrome present with corneal clouding? Yes"
"Hurler syndrome is also known as gargoylism due to the physical appearance of those afflicted by this disease"
"Hurler syndrome may present with developmental delay, airway obstruction, and hepatosplenomegaly"
"The enzyme iduronaTe-2-sulfatase is deficient in HunTer syndrome"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Hunter syndrome? X-linked recessive"
"What substrates accumulate in the lysosomes of a patient with Hunter syndrome? Heparan sulfate and dermatan sulfate"
"Does Hunter syndrome present with corneal clouding? No"
"Hunter syndrome presents as a(n) milder::severity form of Hurler syndrome with aggressive behavior"
"Which lysosomal storage disease is characterized by an \onion skin\\" lysosome? Tay-Sachs disease\""
"Which lysosomal storage disease is characterized by \foam cells\\" (lipid-laden macrophages)? Niemann Pick disease\""
"Which lysosomal storage disease is characterized by a cherry red spot on the macula and no hepatosplenomegaly? Tay-Sachs disease"
"Which lysosomal storage disease is characterized by a cherry red spot on the macula and hepatosplenomegaly? Niemann Pick disease"
"Which lysosomal storage disease is the most common? Gaucher disease"
"Which lysosomal storage disease may be treated with recombinant enzyme therapy? Gaucher disease (i.e. recombinant glucocerebrosidase)"
"Which lysosomal storage disease is characterized by macrophages resembling crumpled tissue paper? Gaucher disease"
"Which lysosomal storage disease is associated with osteoporosis, bone crises, avascular necrosis, and pancytopenia? Gaucher disease"
"Which lysosomal storage disease may present with progressive renal failure and cardiovascular disease? Fabry disease (late)"
"Which lysosomal storage diseases have an X-linked recessive inheritance? Fabry disease, Hunter syndrome::2"
"What lysosomal storage disease presents with globoid cells? Krabbe disease"
"What lysosomal storage disease presents with optic atrophy? Krabbe disease"
"What lysosomal storage disease presents with central and peripheral demyelination with ataxia and dementia? Metachromatic leukodystrophy"
"Which lysosomal storage disease presents with corneal clouding? Hurler syndrome"
"What demographic has an increased incidence of Tay-Sachs, Niemann Pick, and some forms of Gaucher disease? Ashkenazi Jews"
"Incremental reductions in GFR define the stages of chronic kidney disease"
"When an amino acid is metabolized, it is broken down into a carbon skeleton and NH3 (highly toxic)"
"Urea has two nitrogen molecules, one from NH3 and one from aspartate. Note that it's not from  arginine even though it's also involved in the urea cycle"
"In the muscle, amino acids transfer their NH3 group to α-ketoglutarate, forming glutamate and α-ketoacids"
"In the muscle, glutamate transfers its NH3 group to pyruvate, forming alanine and α-ketoglutarate"
"The NH3 from amino acid breakdown in muscle is transported into the blood in the form of alanine"
"What class of enzymes is used in the transfer of NH3 groups during nitrogen metabolism? Aminotransferases"
"What vitamin acts as a cofactor for aminotransferase enzymes? B6 (Pyridoxal phosphate)"
"In the liver, alanine transfers its NH3 group to α-ketoglutarate, forming glutamate and pyruvate"
"In the liver, glutamate may transfer a molecule of NH3 to the urea cycle, reforming α-ketoglutarate"
"In the liver, amino acids transfer their NH3 group to α-ketoglutarate, forming glutamate and α-ketoacids"
"In the liver, glutamate may transfer its NH3 to oxaloacetate, forming aspartate and α-ketoglutarate"
"In the intestine, NH3 may be produced by intestinal bacteria"
"In the intestine, NH3 may be produced via the breakdown of the amino acid glutamine"
"The NH3 in the intestine may be transported to the liver in the form of NH3 in the portal blood"
"What is the major transport form of NH3 in the blood (from most tissues)? Glutamine"
"In the kidney, glutamine may be broken down into NH3 and glutamate via the enzyme glutaminase"
"NH3 is excreted in the urine primarily in the form of urea (from the liver) and NH4+ (from glutamine breakdown)"
"Which tissue/organ uses alanine as its major transport form of NH3? Muscle"
"Which tissue/organ uses NH3 as its major transport form of NH3? Intestines (via portal blood)"
"Does glutamine cause a change in blood pH? No"
"Does glutamate cause a change in blood pH? Yes (decreased)"
"Does the urea cycle occur in the cytoplasm or mitochondria? Both :)"
"Most excess nitrogen generated by catabolism of amino acids is excreted as urea, which is made in the liver"
"The urea cycle begins with NH3, CO2, and 2 ATP"
"In the first step of the urea cycle, CO2 and NH4+ are combined to form carbamoyl phosphate via the enzyme carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I (requires 2 ATP)"
"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I is regulated via positive feedback by N-acetylglutamate"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of the urea cycle? Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I"
"N-acetylglutamate is a(n) obligate activator of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I"
"Which metabolic enzymes require an obligate activator? 1. Pyruvate carboxylase (acetyl-CoA), not decarboxylase b/c that's different 2. Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I (N-acetylglutamate)"
"Which metabolic pathways require an obligate activator? 1. Gluconeogenesis 2. Urea cycle"
"Carbamoyl phosphate may be combined with ornithine to form citrulline via the enzyme ornithine transcarbamylase"
"Citrulline may be combined with aspartate to form argininosuccinate via the enzyme argininosuccinate synthetase (requires 1 ATP)"
"Argininosuccinate may be broken down into arginine and fumarate via the enzyme argininosuccinase"
"Arginine may be broken down into ornithine and urea via the enzyme arginase"
"What happens to the urea that is formed via the breakdown of arginine? Excreted in the urine"
"What happens to the ornithine that is formed via the breakdown of arginine (urea cycle)? It is recycled"
"How do levels of serum BUN change with liver dysfunction? Decreased"
"How do levels of serum BUN change with kidney dysfunction? Increased BUN"
"Disorders of the urea cycle interfere with the body's ability to eliminate ammonia (NH3)"
"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency presents with increased NH4+ and hyper-ammonemia"
"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency presents with increased glutamine"
"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency presents with decreased BUN"
"What is the mode of inheritance of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency? Autosomal recessive"
"Does carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency present with orotic aciduria? No"
"What other enzyme deficiency presents identically to carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency? N-acetylglutamate synthase deficiency"
"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I deficiency presents in neonates::age group as poorly regulated respiration and body temperature, poor feeding, developmental delay, and intellectual disability"
"What is the most common urea cycle disorder? Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency"
"What is the mode of inheritance of ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency? X-linked recessive"
"Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency often presents within the first few days of life but may present later"
"Does ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency present with orotic aciduria? Yes"
"Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency presents with increased NH4+ and hyper-ammonemia"
"Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency presents with increased serum glutamine"
"Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency presents with decreased BUN"
"Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency presents with increased orotic acid in the blood and urine"
"Does ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency present with megaloblastic anemia? No"
"Hyperammonemia results in excess NH3, which depletes α-ketoglutarate, leading to inhibition of the TCA cycle"
"Part of the treatment for hyperammonemia is limiting protein in the diet"
"What treatment for hyperammonemia acts by acidifying the GI tract, thus trapping NH4+ for excretion? Lactulose"
"What treatment for hyperammonemia acts by decreasing colonic ammoniagenic bacteria? Rifaximin"
"Symptoms of hyperammonemia include tremor (asterixis), slurred speech, somnolence, vomiting, cerebral edema, and blurry vision"
"Phenylalanine may be converted to tyrosine via the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase (with tetrahydrobiopterin as a cofactor) BH4 is also a cofactor for  tyrosine hydroxylases"
"Deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase causes phenylketonuria (PKU)"
"In addition to phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency (classic PKU), Malignant phenylketonuria is most commonly caused by a(n) dihydrobiopterin reductase deficiency"
"What amino acid becomes essential in patients with phenylketonuria? Tyrosine"
"Increased phenylalanine (e.g. in PKU) results in excess phenylketones in the urine"
"What is the mode of inheritance of phenylketonuria (PKU)? Autosomal recessive (incidence ~ 1:10,000)"
"When are patients screened for phenylketonuria? 2-3 days after birth"
"Why is screening for phenylketonuria performed 2-3 days after birth? May be normal at birth due to maternal enzymes"
"Phenylketonuria (PKU) is a metabolic disorder characterized by a(n) musty body odor"
"Patients with phenylketonuria must avoid the artificial sweetener aspartame, which contains phenylalanine"
"Phenylketones include phenylacetate, phenyllactate, and phenylpyruvate"
"Phenylketonuria may present with fair skin, eczema, intellectual disability, growth retardation, and seizures"
"Maternal phenylketonuria is due to lack of proper dietary therapy during pregnancy"
"Maternal PKU, infant presents with: micro-cephaly intellectual disability growth retardation congenital heart defects::[4]"
"Treatment for phenylketonuria includes a diet low in phenylalanine with supplemental tyrosine +/- tetrahydrobiopterin"
"Homogentisic acid (from tyrosine) may be converted to maleylacetoacetate (MAA)  via the enzyme homogentisate oxidase"
"Deficiency of the enzyme homogentisate oxidase causes alkaptonuria"
"What is the mode of inheritance of alkaptonuria? Autosomal recessive"
"Which metabolic disorder is associated with bluish-black connective tissue and sclerae (ochronosis)? Alkaptonuria"
"Alkaptonuria is associated with bluish-black connective tissue and sclerae, which is termed ochronosis"
"Alkaptonuria is a metabolic disorder associated with black-colored urine after prolonged exposure to air"
"Alkaptonuria is usually benign but may present with debilitating arthralgias"
"Maleylacetoacetate, from homogentisic acid, is used to make fumarate, which then enters the Kreb's cycle"
"Leucine is eventually broken down into acetyl-CoA via the enzyme branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase"
"Isoleucine and valine are eventually broken down into propionyl-CoA via the enzyme branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase"
"Deficiency of the enzyme branched-chain α-ketoacid dehydrogenase causes maple syrup urine disease"
"Maple syrup urine disease is characterized by blocked degradation of branched amino acids"
"Maple syrup urine disease causes increased α-ketoacids in the blood, especially those of leucine"
"What is the mode of inheritance of maple syrup urine disease? Autosomal recessive"
"Maple syrup urine disease presents with vomiting, poor feeding, and urine that smells like burnt sugar"
"Maple syrup urine disease may cause severe CNS defects, intellectual disability, and death"
"Dietary ingestion of which amino acids should be restricted in patients with maple syrup urine disease? Leucine, Isoleucine, Valine::3"
"Treatment of maple syrup urine disease includes high-dose thiamine supplementation"
"Propionyl-CoA may be generated via the \VOMIT\\" pathway: V: valine O: odd-carbon fatty acids M: methionine I: isoleucine T: threonine\""
"Propionyl-CoA is converted to methylmalonyl-CoA via the enzyme propionyl-CoA carboxylase"
"Propionyl-CoA carboxylase requires ATP, biotin, and CO2"
"Methylmalonyl-CoA may be converted to succinyl-CoA via the enzyme methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (with vitamin B12 as a cofactor)"
"If methylmalonyl-CoA mutase is dysfunctional, methylmalonic acid accumulates in the blood and urine"
"Homocysteine may be converted to cystathionine via the enzyme cystathionine synthase (with B6 as a cofactor)"
"Homocysteine may be converted to methionine via the enzyme methionine synthase (with methyl-THF and vitamin B12 as cofactors)"
"Methionine is combined with adenosine (using ATP) to form S-adenosylmethionine (SAM)"
"S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) is a(n) methyl donor"
"S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) donates a CH3 group to anabolic pathways, forming S-adenosylhomocysteine"
"S-adenosylhomocysteine breaks down into adenosine and homocysteine"
"Homocystinuria is a metabolic disorder characterized by excess homocysteine"
"What is the mode of inheritance of homocystinuria? Autosomal recessive"
"What enzyme deficiencies may cause homocystinuria? Cystathionine synthase and methionine synthase deficiencies"
"In addition to enzyme deficiencies, homocystinuria may be caused by decreased affinity of cystathionine synthase for pyridoxal phosphate (B6, active form)"
"Homocystinuria due to cystathionine synthase deficiency is treated with decreased methionine and increased cysteine, B6, B12, and folate in the diet"
"Homocystinuria due to decreased affinity of cystathionine synthase for B6 is treated with very increased B6 and increased cysteine in the diet"
"Homocystinuria due to methionine synthase deficiency is treated with increased methionine in the diet"
"Homocystinuria is usually caused by vitamin deficiencies"
"Homocystinuria is a metabolic disorder that may present with marfanoid habitus, however with lens dislocation that subluxes down and in"
"Homocystinuria typically presents with subluxation of the lenses downward::direction and inward::direction"
"Homocystinuria may present with intellectual disability, osteoporosis, and kyphosis"
"Homocystinuria causes increased risk for thrombosis and atherosclerosis, which may cause stroke and MI"
"Aortic dissection may present with markedly unequal blood pressure in the arms"
"Folate may be converted to dihydrofolate via the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase"
"Dihydrofolate may be converted to tetrahydrofolate via the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase"
"Tetrahydrofolate (THF) serves as a 1-carbon carrier"
"Active tetrahydrofolate is used in the synthesis of purines and thymidine, which may then be used for DNA and RNA cell division"
"Reduced tetrahydrofolate (methyl-THF) is the storage form of THF"
"Methyl-THF (reduced THF) is used by the enzyme methionine synthase to convert homocysteine to methionine"
"Tyrosine is converted to dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) via the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (with tetrahydrobiopterin as a cofactor)"
"Dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) may be converted to melanin via the enzyme tyrosinase"
"Deficiency of the enzyme tyrosinase causes albinism"
"Dihydroxyphenylalaline (DOPA) may be converted to dopamine via the enzyme DOPA decarboxylase (with vitamin B6 as a cofactor)"
"Dopamine may be converted to norepinephrine via the enzyme dopamine β-hydroxylase (with vitamin C as a cofactor)"
"Norepinephrine may be converted to epinephrine via the enzyme phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (with SAM as a cofactor) and stimulated by cortisol"
"What is the initial breakdown product of epinephrine? Metanephrine"
"Norepinephrine may be broken down into normetanephrine via the enzyme catechol-O-methyl transferase"
"What is the breakdown product of normetanephrine (from NE) and metanephrine (from EPI)? Vanillylmandelic acid (VMA)"
"What is the breakdown product of dopamine? Homovanillic acid (HVA)"
"What is the male remnant of the müllerian (paramesonephric) duct? Appendix testis +bonus"
"Which type of lung carcinoma may present with cavitations on CXR? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Where in the cell does nucleotide synthesis (purines, pyrimidines) occur? Cytoplasm"
"Pyrimidine synthesis begins with glutamine, CO2, and 2ATP"
"In the first step of pyrimidine synthesis, glutamine and CO2 are combined to form carbamoyl phosphate via the enzyme carbamoyl phosphate synthetase II (requires 2 ATP)"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of de novo pyrimidine synthesis? Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase II"
"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase II is regulated by positive feedback via ATP and PRPP"
"Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase II is regulated by negative feedback via UTP"
"Carbamoyl phosphate is combined with aspartate to form orotic acid (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Leflunomide inhibits the enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase, which normally catalyzes the formation of orotic acid from carbamoyl phosphate and aspartate (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Orotic acid is combined with phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) to form UMP (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Orotic aciduria occurs due to the inability to convert orotic acid to UMP due to a defect in the enzyme UMP synthase (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"What is the mode of inheritance of orotic aciduria? Autosomal recessive"
"Orotic aciduria presents in children as failure to thrive, developmental delay, and megaloblastic anemia refractory to folate and B12 "
"Does orotic aciduria present with hyperammonemia? No"
"Does orotic aciduria present with decreased BUN? No"
"Orotic aciduria is treated with UMP or uridine triacetate to bypass the mutated enzyme"
"UMP is converted to UDP (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"UDP is converted to dUDP via the enzyme ribonucleotide reductase (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Hydroxyurea inhibits ribonucleotide reductase, which normally catalyzes conversion of UDP to dUDP (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"dUDP is converted to dUMP (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"dUMP is converted to dTMP via the enzyme thymidylate synthase (with N5,N10-methylene THF as a cofactor)"
"5-fluorouracil (5-FU) inhibits thymidylate synthase, which catalyzes conversion of dUMP to dTMP (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Methotrexate (MTX) inhibits the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase in eukaryotes::eu/pro (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Trimethoprim (TMP) inhibits the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase in prokaryotes::eu/pro (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Pyrimethamine inhibits the enzyme dihydrofolate reductase in protozoa (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Conversion of dUMP to dTMP via thymidylate synthase requires conversion of methylene THF to DHF"
"In addition to glutamine, what other amino acid is necessary for pyrimidine synthesis? Aspartate"
"Where in the cell is the carbamoyl phosphate synthetase I enzyme found? Mitochondria (urea cycle)"
"Where in the cell is the carbamoyl phosphate synthetase II enzyme found? Cytoplasm (pyrimidine synthesis)"
"Purine synthesis begins with ribose-5-phosphate (salvage pathway)"
"Ribose-5-phosphate is converted to phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) via the enzyme PRPP synthetase"
"Phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate (PRPP) is converted to 5-phosphoribosylamine via the enzyme PRPP amidotransferase (purine synthesis)"
"6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) and azathioprine directly inhibit PRPP amidotransferase, which normally catalyzes conversion of PRPP to 5-phosphoribosylamine (purine synthesis)"
"What prodrug is metabolized to 6-mercaptopurine and thus inhibits de novo purine synthesis? Azathioprine"
"5-phosphoribosylamine is converted to IMP, which may then be converted to AMP or GMP (purine synthesis)"
"Mycophenolate and ribavirin inhibit IMP dehydrogenase, preventing conversion of IMP to GMP (purine synthesis)"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of de novo purine synthesis? Glutamine-PRPP amidotransferase"
"Glutamine-PRPP amidotransferase (purine synthesis) is regulated by negative feedback via AMP, IMP, and GMP"
"Inosine is a ribose plus a(n) hypoxanthine"
"AMP is broken down into adenosine (purine salvage)"
"Adenosine is converted to inosine via the enzyme adenosine deaminase (purine salvage)"
"Adenosine deaminase deficiency is one of the major causes of autosomal recessive severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)"
"In adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency, dATP accumulates to toxic levels in lymphocytes"
"GMP is broken down into guanosine (purine salvage)"
"Guanosine is converted to guanine via the enzyme purine nucleoside phosphorylase (purine salvage)"
"Inosine is converted to hypoxanthine via the enzyme purine nucleoside phosphorylase (purine salvage)"
"Hypoxanthine may be converted to xanthine via the enzyme xanthine oxidase"
"Xanthine may be converted to uric acid via the enzyme xanthine oxidase"
"Allopurinol and febuxostat inhibit the enzyme xanthine oxidase, thus decreasing urinary excretion of uric acid"
"Probenecid is a drug used to increase the renal excretion of uric acid"
"Hypoxanthine may be converted to IMP via the enzyme HGPRT (purine salvage)"
"Guanine may be converted to GMP via the enzyme HGPRT (purine salvage)"
"The enzyme HGPRT is deficient in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome"
"HGPRT deficiency (Lesch-Nyhan syndrome) results in increased production of uric acid"
"HGPRT deficiency (Lesch-Nyhan syndrome) results in increased de novo purine synthesis"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome? X-linked recessive"
"The symptoms of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \HGPRT\\": H: Hyperuricemia G: Gout P: Pissed off (aggression"
"Lesch-Nyhan syndrome may present with orange \sand\\" sodium urate crystals in the diaper of an infant\""
"Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is treated with allopurinol or febuxostat::2nd line"
"How much energy (kcal) can be produced from 1g of protein or carbohydrate (ex. whey)? 4 kcal"
"How much energy (kcal) can be produced from 1g of fat? 9 kcal"
"How much energy (kcal) can be produced from 1g of alcohol? 7 kcal"
"During fasting and starvation, the priority is to supply sufficient glucose to the brain and RBCs while preserving protein"
"The main sources of energy in a fed state are glycolysis and aerobic respiration"
"What is the major source of energy while fasting between meals? Hepatic glycogenolysis"
"Glycogen stores typically are depleted after 12 - 18 hours"
"Can red blood cells use ketones for energy? Why? No, they lack mitochondria"
"Propionyl CoA is the only fatty acid carbon that may be used to make glucose (via gluconeogenesis)"
"After 1 - 3 days of starvation, the muscle and liver shift fuel use from glucose to free fatty acids"
"What is the major source of energy during fasting (1-3 days)? Hepatic gluconeogenesis"
"After three days of starvation, the main source of energy for the brain becomes ketone bodies from adipose stores"
"After adipose stores have been depleted (prolonged starvation), vital protein degradation accelerates, leading to organ failure and death"
"What is the major source of energy during the first 2 seconds of exercise? Stored ATP"
"What is the major source of energy during the first 2 - 7 seconds of exercise? Creatine phosphate"
"What is the major source of energy during the first minute of exercise? Anaerobic metabolism"
"What is the major source of energy after a few minutes of exercise? Aerobic metabolism"
"Which vitamins are fat-soluble? A, D, E, K::4"
"Is toxicity more common for water-soluble or fat-soluble vitamins? Fat-soluble (vitamins can accumulate in fat)"
"Fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies may occur with mineral oil intake, which can be used to treat constipation"
"Fat-soluble deficiencies may occur with syndromes that cause steatorrhea (e.g. cystic fibrosis and sprue)"
"Absorption of fat-soluble vitamins is dependent on the gut and pancreas"
"Vitamin A is also known as retinol"
"The retinal form of vitamin A is a constituent of visual pigments"
"Vitamin A is a co-factor for the synthesis of the visual pigment rhodopsin"
"Vitamin A is essential for normal differentiation of epithelial cells into specialized tissue (e.g. pancreatic cells, mucus secreting cells)"
"Vitamin A prevents squamous metaplasia"
"Vitamin A may be used to treat measles and acute promyelocytic leukemia (APML)"
"Vitamin A is found in liver and leafy vegetables::food"
"Oral isotretinoin (vitamin A) is used to treat severe cystic acne"
"What vitamin is used topically for wrinkles and acne? Vitamin A"
"All-trans-retinoic acid (vitamin A) is used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia"
"One sign of vitamin A deficiency is night blindness (nyctalopia)"
"One sign of vitamin A deficiency is dry, scaly skin (xerosis cutis)"
"One sign of vitamin A deficiency is corneal degeneration, known as keratomalacia"
"One sign of vitamin A deficiency is bitot spots on conjunctiva due to squamous metaplasia of corneal epithelium"
"What effect does vitamin A deficiency have on the immune system? Immunosuppression"
"Acute vitamin A toxicity presents with nausea, vomiting, vertigo, and blurred vision"
"Chronic vitamin A toxicity may cause alopecia::hair complication and dry skin"
"Chronic vitamin A toxicity may cause hepatic toxicity and enlargement"
"Chronic vitamin A toxicity may cause pseudotumor cerebri::CNS complication"
"Chronic vitamin A toxicity may cause arthralgias::joint complication"
"Which vitamin supplement may be contraindicated during pregnancy due to its teratogenic effects? Vitamin A (isotretinoin)"
"Teratogenic effects of vitamin A include cardiac abnormalities and cleft palate"
"A negative pregnancy test and two forms of contraception are required before isotretinoin (vitamin A) is prescribed"
"Vitamin A exerts its teratogenic effects by interfering with homeobox genes"
"Vitamin B1 is also known as thiamine"
"What is the coenzyme (active) form of vitamin B1? Thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP)"
"Thiamine pyrophosphate (B1) is a cofactor for the enzyme pyruvate dehydrogenase (glycolysis)"
"Thiamine pyrophosphate (B1) is a cofactor for the enzyme α-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (TCA cycle)"
"Thiamine pyrophosphate (B1) is a cofactor for the enzyme transketolase (HMP shunt)"
"Thiamine pyrophosphate (B1) is a cofactor for the enzyme branched-chain ketoacid dehydrogenase (amino acid metabolism)"
"Vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency causes impaired glucose breakdown with consequent ATP depletion"
"Which tissues are affected first in vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency? Highly aerobic tissue (e.g. brain, heart)"
"Vitamin B1 deficiency is seen in alcoholism and malnutrition"
"One complication of vitamin B1 deficiency is Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome"
"Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is characterized by a triad of ophthalmoplegia, ataxia, and confusion"
"Is the memory loss associated with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome temporary or permanent? Permanent"
"Vitamin B1 deficiency is associated with wet and dry beriberi"
"Wet beriberi is characterized by high-output cardiac failure (dilated cardiomyopathy) and edema +/- dry beriberi symptoms"
"Dry beriberi is characterized by polyneuritis and symmetrical muscle wasting"
"Diagnosis of B1 (thiamine) deficiency is made by measuring increased transketolase activity in red blood cells following thiamine administration"
"Vitamin B2 is also known as riboflavin"
"Vitamin B2 (riboflavin) is a precursor to FAD and FMN"
"Vitamin B2 (riboflavin) is involved in many redox reactions"
"Vitamin B2 deficiency is characterized by cheilosis and corneal vascularization"
"Inflammation of the lips with scaling and fissures at the corners of the mouth is known as cheilosis"
"Vitamin B2 deficiency may be associated with a(n) magenta-colored tongue"
"Vitamin B3 is also known as niacin"
"Vitamin B3 (niacin) is a constituent of NAD+ and NADP+"
"Synthesis of vitamin B3 (niacin) requires vitamins B2 and B6"
"Vitamin B3 (niacin) is involved in many redox reactions"
"What vitamin is derived from the amino acid tryptophan? Vitamin B3 (niacin)"
"Vitamin B3 (niacin) is used to treat dyslipidemia"
"Mild deficiencies of vitamin B3 cause glossitis"
"Severe deficiencies of vitamin B3 can lead to pellagra"
"Pellagra (from severe B3 deficiency) may be caused by Hartnup disease, malignant carcinoid syndrome, and isoniazid therapy"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Hartnup disease? Autosomal recessive"
"Hartnup disease is due to a deficiency of neutral amino acid transporters (especially tryptophan) in the proximal renal tubular cells and enterocytes"
"Hartnup disease is characterized by neutral aminoaciduria and decreased neutral AA absorption (esp. tryptophan) from the gut"
"Hartnup disease is treated with a high-protein diet and nicotinic acid (niacin)"
"Malignant carcinoid syndrome is characterized by increased metabolism of the amino acid tryptophan"
"Isoniazid therapy indirectly decreases vitamin B3 by decreasing levels of vitamin B6"
"What change in bowel movement is associated with pellagra (B3 deficiency)? Diarrhea"
"What CNS complication is associated with pellagra (B3 deficiency)? Dementia (also hallucinations)"
"Pellagra is a vitamin deficiency complication associated with dermatitis in a(n) C3/C4 dermatome distribution"
"Pellagra (B3 deficiency) is associated with hyper-pigmentation of sun-exposed limbs"
"Vitamin B3 (niacin) excess is characterized by facial flushing; can be avoided by taking NSAIDs if given 30-60 minutes before administration"
"The facial flushing seen with vitamin B3 excess is mediated by prostaglandins"
"Vitamin B3 (niacin) excess is associated with hyper-glycemia and hyper-uricemia"
"Vitamin B5 is also known as pantothenic acid"
"Vitamin B5 (pantothenic acid) is an essential component of coenzyme A and fatty acid synthase"
"Vitamin B5 deficiency (rare) presents with dermatitis, enteritis, alopecia, and adrenal insufficiency"
"Vitamin B6 is also known as pyridoxine"
"What is the coenzyme (active) form of vitamin B6? Pyridoxal phosphate (PLP)"
"What vitamin is used as a cofactor for transamination, decarboxylation reactions, and glycogen phosphorylase? B6 (pyridoxal phosphate)"
"B6 (pyridoxal phosphate) is used as a cofactor for synthesis of cystathionine, heme, histamine, neurotransmitters, and niacin::5 things?"
"Vitamin B6 deficiency may occur with isoniazid and oral contraceptive use"
"Vitamin B6 deficiency is characterized by sideroblastic anemia and peripheral neuropathy"
"Vitamin B7 is also known as biotin"
"Vitamin B7 (biotin) is a cofactor for carboxylation reactions"
"Vitamin B7 (biotin) is a cofactor for the enzyme pyruvate carboxylase (gluconeogenesis)"
"Vitamin B7 (biotin) is a cofactor for the enzyme acetyl-CoA carboxylase (fatty acid synthesis)"
"Vitamin B7 (biotin) is a cofactor for the enzyme propionyl-CoA carboxylase (propionyl CoA metabolism)"
"Vitamin B7 (biotin) deficiency may be caused by excessive ingestion of raw eggs, which contain avidin"
"In addition to ingestion of raw eggs, vitamin B7 (biotin) deficiency may occur with antibiotic use or biotinidase deficiency"
"Vitamin B7 (biotin) deficiency presents with alopecia, macular dermatitis, mental status changes, enteritis, and lactic acidosis"
"Vitamin B9 is also known as folate"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) is converted to tetrahydrofolate (THF), a coenzyme for 1-carbon::# transfer/methylation reactions"
"Which vitamin is important for synthesis of nitrogenous bases in DNA and RNA? B9 (folate)"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) is absorbed in the jejunum of the small intestine"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) is found in leafy green vegetables"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) is stored in the liver for up to 3-4 months"
"What is the most common vitamin deficiency in the U.S.? Folate (vitamin B9)"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) deficiency most commonly occurs due to pregnancy, alcoholism, or drugs (e.g. phenytoin, sulfonamides, methotrexate)"
"Supplemental maternal folic acid in early pregnancy decreases risk of neural tube defects"
"What type of anemia is seen with vitamin B9 (folate) deficiency? Macrocytic, megaloblastic anemia"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) deficiency is characterized by hypersegmented polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs)"
"Does vitamin B9 (folate) deficiency cause neurologic symptoms? No"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) deficiency is characterized by normal methylmalonic acid levels"
"Vitamin B9 (folate) deficiency is characterized by increased homocysteine levels"
"A nonspecific symptom of vitamin B9 (folate) deficiency is glossitis::tongue"
"Vitamin B12 is also known as cobalamin"
"Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is a cofactor for methionine synthase and methylmalonyl-CoA mutase"
"Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is found in animal products"
"Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is synthesized only by microorganisms"
"Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is stored in the liver for up to 3-4 years"
"One cause of pernicious anemia is lack of intrinsic factor, which leads to vitamin B12 deficiency"
"Anti-intrinsic factor antibodies are diagnostic for pernicious anemia"
"One cause of vitamin B12 deficiency is gastric bypass surgery (ex. Roux-en-Y, Sleeve Gastrectomy)"
"One cause of vitamin B12 deficiency is damage to or resection of the terminal ileum (e.g. Crohn disease)"
"One cause of vitamin B12 deficiency is insufficient intake, which may occur with vegan diets"
"One cause of vitamin B12 deficiency is malabsorption (e.g. sprue, enteritis)"
"What parasite is associated with vitamin B12 deficiency? Diphyllobothrium latum"
"The Schilling test is useful in determining the etiology of vitamin B12 deficiency"
"What type of anemia is seen with vitamin B12 (cobalamin) deficiency? Macrocytic, megaloblastic anemia::caused by B12, not causes B12"
"Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) deficiency is characterized by hypersegmented polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs)"
"Does vitamin B12 (cobalamin) deficiency cause neurologic symptoms? Yes"
"Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) deficiency is characterized by increased methylmalonic acid levels"
"Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) deficiency is characterized by increased homocysteine levels"
"Prolonged vitamin B12 deficiency causes irreversible nerve damage"
"Vitamin C is also known as ascorbic acid"
"Vitamin C keeps iron in the Fe2+ state which increases absorption"
"Vitamin C is necessary for hydroxylation of proline and lysine in collagen synthesis"
"Vitamin C is necessary for the enzyme dopamine β-hydroxylase, which converts dopamine to norepinephrine"
"Vitamin C is found in fruits and vegetables"
"Vitamin C is used as an ancillary treatment for methemoglobinemia"
"What pathology is associated with vitamin C deficiency? Scurvy"
"What vitamin deficiency is commonly characterized by swollen gums, bruising, petechiae, and hemarthrosis? Vitamin C deficiency (scurvy)"
"Scurvy (vitamin C deficiency) is associated with poor wound healing"
"Scurvy is associated with perifollicular hemorrhages and subperiosteal hemorrhages"
"Scurvy is associated with \corkscrew\\" hair and loosening of the teeth\""
"What effect does vitamin C deficiency have on the immune system? Weakened immune response"
"Vitamin C deficiency is characterized by a(n) increased bleeding time"
"Vitamin C deficiency is characterized by a(n) normal PT and increased PTT"
"Vitamin C excess may cause calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis"
"Vitamin C excess can increase risk of iron toxicity in predisposed individuals (e.g. those with transfusions, hemochromatosis)"
"Vitamin D2, known as ergocalciferol, is the form ingested from plants, fungi, and yeasts"
"Vitamin D3, known as cholecalciferol, is the form consumed in milk, fish, plants, and formed in sun-exposed skin"
"In which layer of sun-exposed skin is cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) formed? Stratum basale"
"What is the storage form of vitamin D? 25-OH D3"
"What is the active form of vitamin D? 1,25-(OH)2 D3"
"Vitamin D increases intestinal absorption of calcium and phosphate"
"At low levels, vitamin D increases bone mineralization"
"At high levels, vitamin D increases bone resorption"
"Vitamin D deficiency causes rickets in children; presents as bone pain and deformity"
"Vitamin D deficiency causes osteomalacia in adults; presents as bone pain, muscle weakness"
"Vitamin D deficiency is associated with hypocalcemic tetany"
"What vitamin should be orally supplemented in breastfed infants? Vitamin D"
"Vitamin D deficiency is exacerbated by low sun exposure, pigmented skin, and prematurity"
"Vitamin D excess presents with hyper-calcemia and hyper-calciuria"
"Vitamin D excess may present with stupor and decreased appetite"
"Vitamin D excess is seen in granulomatous diseases due to increased activation of vitamin D by epithelioid macrophages"
"Vitamin E is also referred to as tocopherol or tocotrienol"
"Vitamin E primarily functions as a(n) antioxidant; protects RBCs and membranes from free radical damage"
"Vitamin E can enhance the anticoagulant effects of warfarin"
"Vitamin E deficiency may cause hemolytic anemia and acanthocytosis::cells (hematologic complications)"
"Vitamin E deficiency may cause muscle weakness"
"What vitamin deficiency has similar neurologic presentation to B12 deficiency but lacks megaloblastic anemia? Vitamin E deficiency"
"Vitamin K is also referred to as phytomenadione, phylloquinone, and phytonadione"
"Vitamin K is a cofactor for the γ-carboxylation of glutamic acid residues on various proteins required for blood clotting"
"Vitamin K is synthesized by colonic bacteria"
"Vitamin K injection is given at birth to prevent hemorrhagic disease of the newborn"
"Does breast milk contain vitamin K? No"
"Vitamin K deficiency may cause neonatal hemorrhage"
"Vitamin K deficiency is characterized by a(n) normal bleeding time"
"Vitamin K deficiency is characterized by a(n) increased PT and increased PTT"
"Vitamin K deficiency can occur after prolonged use of broad-spectrum antibiotics"
"What vitamins function as antioxidants? Vitamins A, C, and E::3"
"Zinc is a mineral that is essential for the activity of 100+ enzymes"
"Zinc is a mineral that is important in the formation of zinc fingers::transcription factor motif"
"Zinc deficiency is associated with delayed wound healing"
"Zinc deficiency is a trace mineral deficiency that is associated with hypo-gonadism"
"Zinc deficiency is a trace mineral deficiency that is associated with decreased adult hair (axillary, facial, pubic)"
"What senses are impaired with zinc deficiency? Taste (dysgeusia) and smell (anosmia)"
"What mineral deficiency is associated with acrodermatitis enteropathica? Zinc deficiency"
"Zinc deficiency may predispose to alcoholic cirrhosis"
"Kwashiorkor is a malnutrition disorder that results from a(n) protein-deficient diet"
"The symptoms of Kwashiorkor may be remembered with the mnemonic \MEALS\\": M: Malnutrition E: Edema A: Anemia L: Liver (fatty) S: Skin lesions (dyspigmentation"
"Kwashiorkor may present with edema (due to decreased plasma oncotic pressure) and skin lesions"
"Kwashiorkor may present as liver malfunction with fatty change due to decreased apolipoprotein synthesis"
"What malnutrition disorder presents as a small child with a swollen abdomen? Kwashiorkor"
"Marasmus is a malnutrition disorder that results from a(n) calorie-deficient diet"
"Marasmus is a malnutrition disorder characterized by emaciation with tissue and muscle wasting and loss of subcutaneous fat +/- edema"
"The neurologic symptoms seen in vitamin B12 deficiency are due to abnormal myelin"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency presents with paresthesias and subacute combined degeneration (neurologic symptoms)"
"Subacute combined degeneration in vitamin B12 deficiency affects the dorsal columns, corticospinal tracts, and spinocerebellar tracts"
"Vitamin E deficiency may cause Posterior (Dorsal) Column and Spinocerebellar tract demyelination"
"Increased NADH/NAD+ (e.g. due to ethanol) causes increased conversion of dihydroxyacetone phosphate -> glycerol-3-phosphate, which combines with fatty acids to make triglycerides, leading to hepatosteatosis (liver pathology)"
"Increased NADH/NAD+ (e.g. due to ethanol) causes decreased TCA activity, thus increasing utilization of acetyl-CoA for ketogenesis and lipogenesis"
"A(n) kinase enzyme catalyzes transfer of a phosphate group from a high-energy molecule (e.g. ATP) to a substrate"
"A(n) phosphorylase enzyme adds inorganic phosphate onto a substrate without using ATP"
"A(n) phosphatase enzyme removes phosphate from a substrate"
"A dehydrogenase enzyme catalyzes redox reactions"
"A(n) hydroxylase enzyme adds a hydroxyl group onto a substrate"
"A(n) carboxylase enzyme transfers CO2 groups (usually with the help of biotin)"
"A(n) mutase enzyme relocates a functional group within a molecule"
"Aerobic metabolism of glucose produces 32 net ATP via the malate-aspartate shuttle (heart and liver)"
"Aerobic metabolism of glucose produces 30 net ATP via the glycerol-3-phosphate shuttle (muscle)"
"Arsenic is a heavy metal that causes glycolysis to produce zero net ATP"
"NAD+ is generally used as an electron carrier in catabolic::anabolic or catabolic processes"
"NADPH is generally used as an electron carrier in anabolic::anabolic or catabolic processes"
"Which universal electron carrier is used in the cytochrome P-450 system of the liver? NADPH"
"What does the carrier molecule ATP carry in its activated form? Phosphoryl groups"
"What do the carrier molecules NADH, NADPH, and FADH2 carry in their activated forms? Electrons"
"What do the carrier molecules CoA and lipoamide carry in their activated forms? Acyl groups"
"What does the carrier molecule biotin carry in its activated form? CO2"
"What does the carrier molecule tetrahydrofolate carry in its activated form? 1-carbon units"
"What does the carrier molecule S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) carry in its activated form? CH3 groups"
"What does the carrier molecule thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) carry in its activated form? Aldehydes"
"Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency causes a buildup of pyruvate that gets shunted to lactate (via LDH) and alanine (via ALT)"
"What is the most common mode of inheritance of pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency? X-linked"
"Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency presents with neurologic defects and lactic acidosis::breakdown"
"Pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency is characterized by increased serum alanine starting at infancy"
"Treatment for pyruvate dehydrogenase deficiency includes increased intake of ketogenic nutrients"
"Which amino acid is the precursor to nitric oxide? Arginine"
"Which amino acid is the precursor to creatine? Arginine"
"Which amino acid is the precursor to glutathione? Glutamate"
"Which amino acid is the precursor to GABA? Glutamate"
"Which amino acid is the precursor to heme? Glycine"
"Cystinuria is caused by a defect of renal PCT and intestinal amino acid transporters, preventing reabsorption of cystine, ornithine, lysine, and arginine"
"What is the mode of inheritance of cystinuria? Autosomal recessive (1:7000, common)"
"Treatment for cystinuria includes urinary alkalinization (e.g. potassium citrate, acetazolamide)"
"Cystinuria may be treated with chelating agents, such as penicillamine"
"Cystine is made of two cysteine amino acids connected by a disulfide bond"
"Pyruvate is converted to lactate via the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (Cori cycle)"
"Conversion of pyruvate -> lactate (Cori cycle) recycles one molecule of NAD+"
"Does the Cori cycle result in regeneration of NAD+? Yes"
"Pyruvate is converted to alanine via the enzyme alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (Cahill cycle)"
"Does the Cahill cycle result in regeneration of NAD+? No"
"Symptoms of acute arsenic toxicity include vomiting, rice-water stools, garlic breath, and QT prolongation"
"Which \Tender Loving Care for Nancy\\" cofactor is inhibited by arsenic? Lipoic acid\""
"Iron is absorbed by enterocytes in the duodenum of the small intestine"
"Heme iron (meat-derived) is readily absorbed and enters the duodenal cell via the heme transporter"
"Non-heme (Fe3+) iron (vegetable-derived) must be converted to Fe2+ in the duodenum / proximal jejunum by cytochrome B and/or Vitamin C for absorption"
"After non-heme iron is converted to Fe2+ by cytochrome B, it enters the duodenal cell by the divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) transporter"
"Ferrous (Fe2+) iron within the duodenal cell is transported into the blood by the ferroportin transporter"
"In the plasma, Fe2+ is oxidized to Fe3+ by ferroxidase enzymes (e.g. *hephaestin, ceruloplasmin)"
"The Fe3+ iron in the plasma is bound to transferrin for transport in the blood"
"Hepcidin binds to the ferroportin transporter on intestinal mucosal cells and macrophages, thus inhibiting iron absorption"
"What gene (and its respective gene product) regulates hepcidin? HFE"
"Some of the iron absorbed in the duodenum is taken up by hepatocytes for storage as ferritin"
"Some of the iron absorbed in the duodenum is taken up by erythroid precursors in bone marrow to make hemoglobin for RBCs"
"After ~120 days, red blood cells are removed by macrophages of the reticuloendothelial system"
"In the stomach, dietary vitamin B12 is bound to the protein R-binder, which is secreted from the salivary glands"
"In the duodenum, B12 dissociates from R-binder via pancreatic proteases and attaches to intrinsic factor"
"The B12-IF complex from the duodenum is transported to the terminal ileum, where it binds to IF receptors and is endocytosed"
"In the cells of the ileum, the vitamin B12-IF complex dissociates and B12 is bound to transcobalamin II"
"The transcobalamin II-B12 complex is transported to the bone marrow (hematopoiesis) and liver (storage)"
"In the first step of heme synthesis, glycine and succinyl-CoA are combined to form δ-aminolevulinic acid via the enzyme δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase (with vitamin B6 as a cofactor)"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme of heme synthesis? δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALAS)"
"δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase is regulated via negative feedback by glucose and heme"
"Does heme synthesis occur in the cytoplasm or mitochondria? Both :)"
"δ-aminolevulinic acid is converted to porphobilinogen via the enzyme δ-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (heme synthesis)"
"Porphobilinogen is converted to hydroxymethylbilane via the enzyme porphobilinogen deaminase (heme synthesis)"
"Hydroxymethylbilane is converted to uroporphyrinogen III via the enzyme uroporphyrinogen III synthase (heme synthesis)"
"Uroporphyrinogen III is converted to coproporphyrinogen III via the enzyme uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (heme synthesis)"
"Coproporphyrinogen III is converted to protoporphyrin (heme synthesis)"
"Protoporphyrin and Fe2+ combine to form heme via the enzyme ferrochelatase"
"Lead (Pb) poisoning leads to inhibition of the enzymes δ-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase and ferrochelatase (heme synthesis)"
"In splenic macrophages, heme is metabolized to biliverdin by the enzyme heme oxygenase"
"In splenic macrophages, biliverdin is reduced to (unconjugated) bilirubin"
"What type of bilirubin (conjugated or unconjugated) is formed in the splenic macrophages? Unconjugated/indirect bilirubin"
"Unconjugated bilirubin travels in the blood bound to albumin"
"Unconjugated bilirubin is removed from the blood by the liver::organ"
"In the liver, unconjugated bilirubin is converted to conjugated bilirubin via the enzyme UDP-glucuronyl transferase"
"Conjugated (direct) bilirubin is excreted in bile and metabolized by bacterial flora, producing urobilinogen"
"Most (80%) of urobilinogen is excreted in feces as stercobilin, which gives stool its brown color"
"~ 18% of urobilinogen is returned to the liver via enterohepatic circulation"
"~ 2% of urobilinogen is excreted in urine as urobilin, which gives urine its yellow color"
"Is unconjugated (indirect) bilirubin water soluble? No (insoluble)"
"Is conjugated (direct) bilirubin water soluble? Yes"
"The \-ogen\\" suffix (e.g. urobilinogen) indicates a(n) colorless::colored or colorless compound\""
"The \-in\\" suffix (e.g. stercobilin) indicates a(n) colored::colored or colorless compound\""
"What chromosomal abnormality is commonly associated with endocardial cushion defects? Trisomy 21 (Down syndrome)"
"The effects of {{c10::cholinergic toxicity may be remembered with the mnemonic \DUMBBELSS\\": D: diarrhea U: urination M: miosis B: bronchospasm B: bradycardia/bradypnea E: excitation of skeletal muscle and CNS L: lacrimation S: salivation S: sweating\""
"Anti-muscarinics block the action of acetylcholine at M receptors"
"What drug class does atropine belong to? Anti-muscarinics"
"Atropine is found in belladona flowers and jimson weed, which are natural antimuscarinic alkaloids"
"What effect do anti-muscarinics have on pupils? Dilation (mydriasis)::dilation or constriction"
"What effect do anti-muscarinics have on accommodation? Inhibition (cycloplegia)"
"What anti-muscarinic is administered as a transdermal patch to treat motion sickness (vestibular nausea)? Scopolamine"
"Scopolamine primarily affects the CNS::organ system via inhibition of M1 muscarinic receptors"
"What effect do anti-muscarinics have on heart rate? Increased HR"
"What effect do anti-muscarinics have on AV conduction velocity? Increased conduction velocity"
"What drug class do ipratropium and tiotropium belong to? Inhaled::ROA M3 antimuscarinics::class"
"Ipratropium and tiotropium primarily affect the lungs::organ via inhibition of M3 muscarinic receptors"
"Anti-muscarinics may be used to dilate bronchial airways and to reduce secretions"
"Which anti-muscarinic (tiotropium or ipratropium) is longer-acting? Tiotropium"
"What drug class do oxybutynin, tolterodine, and solifenacin belong to? Oral M3 muscarinic antagonists"
"Oxybutynin and tolterodine primarily affect the genitourinary system::organ system via inhibition of M3 muscarinic receptors"
"Oxybutynin and tolterodine are primarily used to treat urgency incontinence (overactive bladder)"
"What drug class do benztropine and trihexyphenidyl belong to? M1 Muscarinic antagonists"
"Benztropine and trihexyphenidyl primarily affect the CNS::organ system via inhibition of M1 muscarinic receptors"
"M1 muscarinic antagonists (e.g. Benztropine) can reduce pill rolling tremors and cogwheel rigidity in Parkinson's disease"
"Benztropine may be used to treat extrapyramidal side effects caused by anti-psychotic drugs (e.g. dystonia, akathisia, parkinsonism)"
"What effect does atropine have on the stomach acid secretion? Decreased acid secretion"
"What effect does atropine have on the gut motility? Decreased motility"
"What effect does atropine have on airway secretions? Decreased secretions"
"Atropine may be used to decrease urinary urgency in cystitis"
"Which \DUMBBELSS\\" symptom is NOT alleviated by atropine administration in cholinesterase inhibitor poisoning? Excitation of skeletal muscle and CNS\""
"One adverse effect of anti-muscarinics (e.g. atropine) is tachycardia::HR"
"One adverse effect of anti-muscarinics is hyperthermia, especially in infants"
"Anti-muscarinics cause hyperthermia due to inhibition of sweat glands via antagonism of M3 receptors"
"Adverse effects of anti-muscarinics include dry eyes and mouth"
"One adverse effect of anti-muscarinics is dry, flushed skin"
"Adverse effects of anti-muscarinics on the eye and its muscles (not including glands) include mydriasis and cycloplegia"
"One adverse effect of anti-muscarinics is acute angle-closure glaucoma, especially in elderly patients"
"Anti-muscarinics may cause acute angle-closure glaucoma due to decreased outflow of aqueous humor, secondary to mydriasis"
"One adverse effect of anti-muscarinics is urinary retention, especially in men with prostatic hyperplasia"
"Adverse effects of antimuscarinics include agitation, hallucination, and coma, especially in elderly patients"
"The α1 adrenergic receptor is coupled to Gq"
"The α2 adrenergic receptor is coupled to Gi"
"The β1 and β2 adrenergic receptors are coupled to Gs"
"Activation of the α1 adrenergic receptor causes vaso-constriction"
"Activation of the α1 adrenergic receptor increases mean arterial pressure (MAP)"
"Activation of the α1 adrenergic receptor causes veno-constriction"
"Activation of the α1 adrenergic receptor causes contraction of the pupillary dilator muscle, causing mydriasis"
"Activation of the α1 adrenergic receptor causes contraction of the intestinal and bladder sphincter muscles"
"Activation of the α1 adrenergic receptor may cause urinary retention"
"What effect do α2 agonists have on sympathetic tone? Decreased (sympatholytic)"
"Activation of the α2 adrenergic receptor causes decreased levels of intracellular cAMP"
"Activation of the presynaptic α2 adrenergic receptors can inhibit neurotransmitter release"
"Activation of α2 adrenergic receptors on pancreatic islet cells causes decreased insulin release"
"Activation of α2 adrenergic receptors inhibits lipolysis and release of fatty acids"
"Activation of α2 adrenergic receptors on ciliary bodies causes decreased aqueous humor production"
"Activation of α2 adrenergic receptors causes increased platelet aggregation"
"Brimonidine is a(n) α2 adrenergic agonist used to treat chronic open angle glaucoma"
"Activation of β adrenergic receptors causes increased levels of intracellular cAMP"
"Activation of β1 adrenergic receptors on the SA node causes increased heart rate"
"Activation of β1 adrenergic receptors on the cardiac myocytes causes increased cardiac contractility"
"Activation of β1 adrenergic receptors results in increased cardiac output"
"Activation of β1 adrenergic receptors on the juxtaglomerular cells causes increased renin release"
"Activation of β2 adrenergic receptors causes broncho-dilation"
"Activation of β2 adrenergic receptors causes coronary and skeletal muscle vaso-dilation"
"Activation of β2 adrenergic receptors causes decreased systemic vascular resistance (SVR)"
"Activation of β2 adrenergic receptors causes decreased diastolic blood pressure"
"Activation of β1 and β2 adrenergic receptors stimulates lipolysis and release of fatty acids"
"Activation of β2 adrenergic receptors stimulates gluconeogenesis in the liver"
"Activation of β2 adrenergic receptors on pancreatic islet cells causes increased insulin release"
"What effect does β2 adrenergic activation have on serum K+ levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"Activation of β2 adrenergic receptors on ciliary bodies causes increased aqueous humor production"
"Phenylephrine is primarily a(n) α1::alpha 1 or 2 agonist"
"Phenylephrine may be used to treat nasal congestion"
"Phenylephrine may be used as a(n) mydriatic for ocular procedures"
"Phenylephrine may be used to treat hypo-tension"
"Phenylephrine causes increased systolic pressure"
"Phenylephrine causes increased diastolic pressure through α1-mediated venoconstriction"
"Phenylephrine causes reflex bradycardia::HR"
"Rank the following receptors for affinity to norepinephrine, from highest to lowest: β1, α1, α2, α1> α2 > β1"
"Norepinephrine may be used to treat hypo-tension"
"Norepinephrine causes increased diastolic pressure"
"Norepinephrine causes increased pulse pressure"
"Norepinephrine causes reflex bradycardia::HR"
"Unlike phenylephrine, norepinephrine causes increased cardiac contractility due to β1 activation which results in increased pulse pressure"
"What sympathomimetic catecholamine is used to treat septic shock? Norepinephrine"
"Rank the following receptors for affinity to dobutamine, from highest to lowest: β1, β2, α β1 > β2 > α"
"What effect does dobutamine have on HR and contractility? Increased HR/contractility (β1 agonist)"
"Dobutamine causes mild vaso-dilation"
"Dobutamine causes increased pulse pressure via Beta-1 receptor agonism"
"Dobutamine causes increased systolic pressure"
"Dobutamine causes decreased diastolic pressure"
"What sympathomimetic is used to treat cardiogenic shock? Dobutamine"
"Which sympathomimetic is useful for cardiac stress testing? Dobutamine"
"Isoproterenol acts on β1 and β2 adrenergic receptors"
"Isoproterenol causes increased HR and contractility"
"Isoproterenol causes vaso-dilation"
"Isoproterenol causes decreased diastolic pressure"
"Isoproterenol causes decreased mean arterial pressure via β2-mediated vasodilation"
"Isoproterenol causes increased pulse pressure"
"At low doses, epinephrine primarily activates β adrenergic receptors"
"At high doses, epinephrine primarily activates α adrenergic receptors"
"Epinephrine causes broncho-dilation"
"Epinephrine causes increased HR and cardiac contractility"
"Epinephrine causes increased mean arterial pressure"
"Epinephrine causes increased systolic pressure"
"Epinephrine causes decreased diastolic pressure"
"Epinephrine causes increased pulse pressure"
"What catecholamine is used to treat anaphylactic shock? Epinephrine"
"Catecholamine synthesis begins with transport of the amino acid tyrosine into the nerve terminal"
"Inside the nerve terminal, tyrosine is converted to L-DOPA via tyrosine hydroxylase"
"Metyrosine is a tyrosine analog that prevents conversion of  tyrosine to L-DOPA"
"Dopamine is converted into norepinephrine in the vesicle by dopamine β-hydroxylase"
"Norepinephrine (and dopamine) in the synapse is transported back into the nerve terminal via the (NET) norepinephrine transporter"
"Dopamine in the synapse is transported back into the nerve terminal via the (DAT) dopamine transporter"
"Cocaine exerts its effects via inhibition of the NET and DAT transporters (reuptake inhibitor)"
"Cocaine intoxication can cause agitation, hypertension::BP, tachycardia::HR, and pupillary dilation"
"Cocaine causes vaso-constriction::dilation or constriction"
"Cocaine can cause nasal mucosal atrophy or septal perforation due to vasoconstriction"
"Cocaine may induce coronary vasospasm, which can cause myocardial ischemia and Prinzmetal angina"
"What class of autonomic drugs are contraindicated in cocaine toxicity? β-blockers"
"Administration of β-blockers for cocaine intoxication causes extreme hypertension::BP due to unopposed α1 activation"
"Atomoxetine is a(n) NET inhibitor used to treat ADHD (reuptake inhibitor)"
"Catecholamines are transported into pre-synaptic vesicles by the (VMAT) vesicular monoamine transporter"
"Reserpine inhibits VMAT, thus depleting neurotransmitter stores"
"Amphetamines exert their effects by displacing catecholamines (NE, dopamine) into the synapse"
"Methylphenidate is an amphetamine derivative used to treat ADHD"
"Modafinil is a stimulant used to treat narcolepsy"
"Stimulants (e.g. amphetamine, methylphenidate) may suppress appetite"
"The D1 dopamine receptor is coupled to Gs"
"The D2 dopamine receptor is coupled to Gi"
"At low doses, dopamine stimulates D1 receptors, especially in the renal vasculature"
"What effect do low levels of dopamine have on renal blood flow? Increased RBF"
"At medium doses, dopamine stimulates β1 receptors"
"At high doses, dopamine stimulates α1 receptors"
"Dopamine may be used for the treatment of heart failure and unstable bradycardia"
"Dopamine may be used as a pressor in the treatment of shock refractory to other agents (e.g. norepinephrine)"
"D2 dopamine receptors are primarily found in the CNS::organ system"
"Clonidine is a(n) α2-adrenergic agonist that primary affects the CNS::organ system"
"Which adrenergic receptor is sympatholytic? α2"
"What effect does clonidine have on blood pressure? Decreased (via reduced sympathetic tone)"
"Clonidine is an α2 agonist that may be used to treat hypertensive urgency (limited situations)"
"Clonidine is an α2 agonist that may be used to treat ADHD that is refractory to treatment with stimulants"
"Clonidine is an α2 agonist that may be used to treat Tourette's syndrome"
"Adverse effects of clonidine include CNS and respiratory depression"
"One adverse effect associated with clonidine is hypotension::BP"
"One adverse effect associated with clonidine is bradycardia::HR"
"One adverse effect associated with clonidine is miosis::pupil size"
"α-methyldopa is a(n) α2 adrenergic agonist that primary affects the CNS::organ system"
"α-methyldopa is an α2 agonist that is primarily used to treat gestational hypertension"
"Which α2 agonist may cause a SLE-like syndrome as an adverse effect? α-methyldopa"
"Which α2 agonist may cause a direct Coombs (+) hemolysis as an adverse effect? α-methyldopa"
"α-methyldopa may cause a direct Coombs test (+) hemolysis"
"Tizanidine is an α2 agonist that may be used as a muscle relaxant"
"Phentolamine is a non-selective reversible α1 and α2 adrenergic receptor antagonist"
"Is phentolamine (α-blocker) reversible or irreversible? Reversible"
"Is phentolamine (α-blocker) selective or non-selective? Non-selective"
"Phentolamine causes vaso-dilation"
"Phenoxybenzamine is a non-selective irreversible α1 and α2 adrenergic receptor antagonist"
"Is phenoxybenzamine (α-blocker) reversible or irreversible? Irreversible"
"Is phenoxybenzamine (α-blocker) selective or non-selective? Non-selective"
"α antagonists (e.g. phentolamine) can be used to treat cocaine::illicit drug toxicity"
"Wine and aged cheese contain the sympathomimetic tyramine, which is metabolized by the enzyme monoamine oxidase-A"
"Monoamine oxidase inhibitors can prevent the metabolism of tyramine (e.g. from wine or cheese ingestion), causing a(n) hypertensive crisis"
"Phentolamine may be given to patients on MAO inhibitors who eat tyramine containing foods (e.g. wine, cheese)"
"Phenoxybenzamine is used pre-operatively to prevent hypertensive crisis during removal of a(n) pheochromocytoma"
"α-receptor antagonists may cause orthostatic hypotension::BP as an adverse effect"
"α-receptor antagonists may cause reflex tachycardia::HR as an adverse effect"
"What drug class do prazosin, terazosin, doxazosin, and tamsulosin belong to? Selective α1 antagonists (\-osins\\")\""
"α1 adrenergic antagonists may be used to treat urinary symptoms of BPH"
"Selective α1 adrenergic antagonists (except tamsulosin) may be used to treat hypertension::BP"
"Prazosin is a selective α1 antagonist that may be used to treat post-traumatic stress disorder"
"One adverse effect associated with selective α1 adrenergic antagonists is 1st-dose orthostatic hypotension"
"Mirtazapine is a selective α2 adrenergic antagonist"
"Is mirtazapine (α-blocker) selective or non-selective? Selective"
"Mirtazapine is an α2 antagonist that may be used to treat depression"
"Adverse effects of selective α2 antagonists (e.g. mirtazapine) include sedation, increased appetite, and increased serum cholesterol"
"β-blockers all have a \-lol\\" suffix\""
"β-blockers decrease cardiac contractility"
"β-blockers may cause bradycardia::HR as a direct adverse effect"
"β-blockers can cause or exacerbate heart block due to excessive AV nodal inhibition"
"β-blockers are useful in the management of chronic, stable angina"
"β-blockers treat angina by reducing HR and contractility, thus decreasing myocardial O2 demand"
"What type of β-blocker is atenolol? Selective β1 antagonist (cardioselective)"
"What type of β-blocker is betaxolol? Selective β1 antagonist (cardioselective)"
"What type of β-blocker is esmolol? Selective β1 antagonist (cardioselective)"
"What type of β-blocker is acebutolol? Selective β1 antagonist (cardioselective)"
"What type of β-blocker is metoprolol? Selective β1 antagonist (cardioselective)"
"β1 selective antagonists primarily suppress adrenergic stimulation of the heart (cardioselective)"
"Cardioselective β-blockers are useful in the acute treatment of MI and other ACS (e.g. unstable, NSTEMI)"
"Cardioselective β-blockers are useful in the management of chronic heart failure"
"What non-selective β-blocker may be used in the treatment of CHF? Carvedilol"
"What type of β-blocker is carvedilol? Non-selective β- and α1-antagonist"
"Do cardioselective β-blockers reduce mortality in CHF and post-MI? Yes"
"β-blockers reduce cardiac remodeling by protecting the heart from excess circulating catecholamines"
"β-blockers are useful in the treatment of hypertension, especially in patients with heart failure or post-MI"
"β-blockers inhibit production of renin"
"What type of β-blocker is labetalol? Non-selective α1- and β-antagonist"
"Which two β-blockers are non-selective α1- and β-antagonists? Labetalol and carvedilol"
"Labetalol causes vaso-dilation"
"Which β-blocker is used to treat hypertension during pregnancy (aka gestational hypertension)? Labetalol"
"Labetalol is useful in the treatment of hypertensive emergency"
"IV β-blockers (e.g. labetalol, esmolol) are useful in the acute management of aortic dissection"
"β-blockers are useful in the management of hypertrophic obstructive and dilated cardiomyopathy"
"β-adrenergic blockers can be used for migraine prophylaxis"
"β-blockers are a first line treatment for essential tremor"
"What class of anti-arrhythmic are β-blockers? Class II antiarrhythmics"
"Adverse effects of non-selective β-blockers include exacerbation of asthma and COPD"
"Timolol is a topical non-selective β-blocker that is used to treat open angle glaucoma"
"β-blockers can cause impotence in men as an adverse effect"
"Which two β-blockers have partial agonist activity? Acebutolol and pindolol"
"Acebutolol and pindolol are contraindicated in heart failure, MI, and angina"
"β-blockers may have CNS adverse effects, including seizures, sedation, and sleep alterations"
"Metoprolol is a β-blocker that is associated with dyslipidemia as an adverse effect"
"β-blockers may mask the effects of hypoglycemia"
"Propranolol is a β-blocker that may exacerbate vasospasm in Prinzmetal angina"
"β-blockers may cause unopposed α1 agonism if given alone for cocaine toxicity or pheochromocytoma"
"Are β-blockers contraindicated in diabetic patients? No"
"What type of cardiac tumor is associated with a diastolic \plop\\" sound (mid-diastolic rumbling murmur best heard at the apex) on auscultation? Myxomas\""
"What renal pathology is associated with eosinophils in the urine? Acute interstitial nephritis"
"Anemia is defined as a reduction in circulating red blood cell (RBC) mass"
"Anemia may present with signs and symptoms of hypoxia"
"Anemia may present with pale conjunctiva and skin"
"Anemia may present with angina, especially with pre-existing coronary artery disease"
"Anemia is defined as Hb < 13.5 g/dL in males"
"Anemia is defined as Hb < 12.5 g/dL in females"
"Hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit (Hct) and RBC count are used as surrogates for RBC mass, which is difficult to measure"
"What measurement is used to classify anemia as microcytic, normocytic, or macrocytic? Mean corpuscular volume (MCV)"
"Anemia is classified as microcytic if the MCV < 80 μm3"
"Anemia is classified as normocytic when the MCV is between 80 to 100 μm3"
"Anemia is classified as macrocytic when the MCV > 100 μm3 "
"Microcytic anemias are due to decreased production of hemoglobin"
"Hemoglobin is made of heme and globin"
"Heme is composed of iron and protoporphyrin"
"What is the most common type of anemia? Iron deficiency anemia"
"What is the most common nutritional deficiency in the world? Iron deficiency"
"Stored intracellular iron is bound to ferritin, which prevents iron from forming free radicals via the Fenton reaction"
"Serum iron is a measure of iron in the blood"
"Total iron-binding capacity (TIBC) is a measure of transferrin molecules in the blood"
"% saturation is a measure of the percent of transferrin molecules that are bound by iron"
"What % of transferrin molecules are normally bound by iron? ~ 33%"
"Serum ferritin is a reflection of iron stores in macrophages and the liver"
"In general, iron deficiency is usually caused by dietary lack or blood loss"
"What is the most common cause of iron deficiency in infants? Breastfeeding (human milk is low in iron)"
"What is the most common cause of iron deficiency in children? Poor diet"
"What is the most common cause of iron deficiency in male adults (20-50 years old)? Peptic ulcer disease"
"What are the most common causes of iron deficiency in female adults (20-50 years old)? Menorrhagia or pregnancy::2"
"What is the most common cause of iron deficiency in the elderly (Western world)? Colon polyps/carcinoma"
"What is the most common cause of iron deficiency in the elderly (developing world)? Hookworm infection"
"What hookworms are associated with iron deficiency anemia? Ancylostoma duodenale and Necator americanus::2"
"What surgical procedure is associated with iron deficiency anemia? Gastrectomy *Why"
"Iron deficiency anemia is characterized by decreased ferritin"
"Iron deficiency anemia is characterized by increased TIBC"
"Iron deficiency anemia is characterized by decreased serum iron"
"Iron deficiency anemia is characterized by decreased % saturation"
"Early stages of iron deficiency cause a(n) normocytic::MCV anemia"
"Later stages of iron deficiency cause a(n) microcytic::MCV anemia"
"In addition to symptoms of anemia, iron deficiency also presents with pica and koilonychia (spoon nails)"
"Iron deficiency anemia is characterized by hypo-chromic RBCs"
"Iron deficiency anemia is associated with a(n) increased red cell distribution width (RDW)"
"What microcytic anemia is associated with an increased RDW? Iron deficiency anemia"
"Iron deficiency anemia is associated with a(n) increased free erythrocyte protoporphyrin (FEP)"
"Treatment of iron deficiency anemia involves supplemental iron (ferrous sulfate)"
"Plummer-Vinson syndrome is iron deficiency anemia with esophageal webs and atrophic glossitis"
"What pathology is characterized by a triad of iron deficiency anemia, dysphagia, and a beefy red tongue? Plummer-Vinson syndrome"
"Anemia of chronic disease is an anemia associated with cancer and chronic inflammation"
"What is the most common type of anemia in hospitalized patients? Anemia of chronic disease (ACD)"
"Chronic disease results in increased hepcidin release from the liver"
"Hepcidin suppresses production of the hormone erythropoietin (EPO)"
"Anemia of chronic disease is characterized by increased ferritin"
"Anemia of chronic disease is characterized by decreased TIBC"
"Anemia of chronic disease is characterized by decreased serum iron"
"Anemia of chronic disease is characterized by decreased % saturation"
"Early stages of anemia of chronic disease cause a(n) normocytic::MCV anemia"
"Later stages of anemia of chronic disease cause a(n) microcytic::MCV anemia"
"Anemia of chronic disease is associated with a(n) increased free erythrocyte protoporphyrin (FEP)"
"Which microcytic anemias present with increased free erythrocyte protoporphyrin? Iron deficiency anemia, Anemia of chronic disease::2"
"Treatment for anemia of chronic disease involves addressing the underlying cause"
"Sideroblastic anemia is an anemia due to defective protoporphyrin synthesis"
"If protoporphyrin is deficient (e.g. sideroblastic anemia), iron remains trapped in the mitochondria"
"Sideroblastic anemia is associated with ringed sideroblasts, in which iron-laden mitochondria form a ring around the nucleus of erythroid precursors"
"What histological stain is used to visualize iron? Prussian blue"
"Congenital sideroblastic anemia is most commonly due to a defect in the enzyme δ-aminolevulinic acid synthase (ALAS)"
"Is the ALAS gene defect in congenital sideroblastic anemia an autosomal or X-linked defect? X-linked"
"What is the most common reversible cause of sideroblastic anemia? Alcoholism"
"Sideroblastic anemia may be caused by lead poisoning"
"Sideroblastic anemia may be caused by vitamin B6 deficiency"
"What mineral deficiency can cause sideroblastic anemia? Copper deficiency"
"Sideroblastic anemia is a cause of microcytic::MCV anemia"
"Sideroblastic anemia is characterized by increased ferritin"
"Sideroblastic anemia is characterized by decreased TIBC"
"Sideroblastic anemia is characterized by increased serum iron"
"Sideroblastic anemia is characterized by increased % saturation"
"What is the treatment for sideroblastic anemia? Pyridoxine (vitamin B6)"
"Thalassemia is an anemia due to decreased synthesis of globin chains"
"Thalassemia is a cause of microcytic::MCV anemia"
"Thalassemia is an inherited mutation that protects carriers against Plasmodium falciparum malaria"
"One normal type of hemoglobin is HbF which is composed of two α and two γ chains"
"One normal type of hemoglobin is HbA which is composed of two α and two β chains"
"One normal type of hemoglobin is HbA2 which is composed of two α and two δ chains"
"α-thalassemia is usually due to gene deletions"
"There are normally four total α-globin alleles present on chromosome 16"
"How does α-thalassemia with one gene deleted present? Asymptomatic"
"α-thalassemia due to a two gene deletion presents with mild anemia with a(n) increased RBC count"
"α-thalassemia with a(n) cis::cis or trans deletion is more prevalent in Asian populations"
"α-thalassemia with a(n) trans::cis or trans deletion is more prevalent in African populations"
"Which type of gene deletion (cis or trans) is associated with an increased risk of severe thalassemia in offspring? Cis deletion"
"α-thalassemia due to a three gene deletion presents with HbH disease and severe anemia"
"α-thalassemia due to a(n) three gene deletion is characterized by formation of β4 tetramers, known as HbH"
"Do patients with α-thalassemia due to a three gene deletion have any α-globin? Yes (very little)"
"α-thalassemia due to a four gene deletion causes hydrops fetalis (lethal in utero)"
"α-thalassemia due to a(n) four gene deletion is characterized by formation of γ4 tetramers, known as Hb Barts"
"Do patients with α-thalassemia due to a four gene deletion have any α-globin? No"
"β-thalassemia is usually due to gene mutations"
"β-thalassemia is often due to mutations in splice sites and promoter sequences"
"β-thalassemia is most commonly seen in individuals of African or Mediterranean descent"
"There are two total β-globin alleles present on chromosome 11"
"β-thalassemia mutations in β-globin genes result in absent (β0) or diminished (β+) production of the β-globin chain"
"β-thalassemia minor (β/β+) is the mildest form of disease; asymptomatic with increased RBC count"
"What type of pathologic RBC is seen with β-thalassemia? Target cells"
"Diagnosis of β-thalassemia minor is confirmed by an isolated increase in HbA2 (> 3.5%) on electrophoresis"
"β-thalassemia major (β0/β0) is the most severe form of the disease; causes severe anemia a few months after birth"
"When does β-thalassemia major (β0/β0) typically present? Months after birth"
"Why is β-thalassemia major not problematic at birth? High HbF is temporarily protective"
"In β-thalassemia major, α4 tetramers precipitate and damage RBCs"
"In β-thalassemia major, α4 tetramers result in ineffective erythropoiesis and extravascular hemolysis"
"β-thalassemia major is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into the skull, leading to a \crewcut\\" appearance on X-ray\""
"β-thalassemia major is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into facial bones, leading to \chipmunk facies\\"\""
"Which type of thalassemia (α or β) is associated with a \crewcut\\" skull appearance on X-ray? β-thalassemia (major)\""
"β-thalassemia major is associated with extramedullary hematopoiesis, which can be observed on abdominal physical exam as an enlargement of the liver and spleen"
"Patients with β-thalassemia major are at risk of aplastic crisis with parvovirus B19 infection of erythroid precursors"
"Treatment of β-thalassemia major involves chronic transfusions, which increases risk for secondary hemochromatosis"
"β-thalassemia major may be associated with nucleated::feature RBCs on blood smear"
"β-thalassemia major may have increased anisopoikilocytosis, which refers to the presence of abnormally shaped and unequally sized RBCs on blood smear"
"Hemoglobin electrophoresis of a patient with β-thalassemia major shows little or no HbA"
"Most microcytic anemias are also hypo-chromic"
"Vitamins B9 (folate) and B12 are necessary for synthesis of DNA precursors"
"Lack of folate or vitamin B12 impairs synthesis of DNA precursors"
"Impaired division and enlargement of RBC precursors leads to megaloblastic, macrocytic anemia"
"Megaloblastic anemia occurs due to delayed maturation of the nucleus relative to the cytoplasm of precursor RBCs"
"Impaired division of granulocytic precursors in megaloblastic anemia leads to hypersegmented neutrophils"
"Megaloblastic anemia is a cause of macrocytic::MCV anemia"
"Megaloblastic anemia is associated with glossitis::tongue"
"In addition to RBCs, megaloblastic anemia also leads to megaloblastic change in cells that are rapidly-dividing"
"Folate deficiency develops within months, as body stores are minimal"
"One cause of folate deficiency is poor diet, which is often seen in alcoholics::not children and the elderly"
"One cause of folate deficiency is increased demand, which is often seen with pregnancy, hemolytic anemia, and cancer"
"One cause of folate deficiency is drugs, such as folate antagonists"
"Folate deficiency is characterized by macrocytic::MCV RBCs"
"Folate deficiency is characterized by hypersegmented neutrophils"
"Folate deficiency is characterized by increased serum homocysteine"
"Folate deficiency is characterized by normal serum methylmalonic acid"
"Does folate deficiency present with neurologic symptoms? No"
"Dietary vitamin B12 is complexed to animal-derived proteins"
"Salivary gland enzymes liberate vitamin B12 from animal-derived proteins"
"Which is more common, vitamin B12 or folate deficiency? Folate deficiency"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency takes years to develop due to large hepatic stores"
"What is the most common cause of vitamin B12 deficiency? Pernicious anemia"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency may occur with pancreatic insufficiency; due to inability to cleave R-binder from B12"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency is characterized by macrocytic::MCV RBCs"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency is characterized by hypersegmented neutrophils"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency is characterized by increased serum homocysteine"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency is characterized by increased serum methylmalonic acid"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency may cause subacute combined degeneration::long name of the spinal cord"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency may result in poor proprioception and vibratory sense due to damage to the dorsal (posterior) column of the spinal cord"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency may result in spastic::type paresis due to damage to the lateral corticospinal tract of the spinal cord"
"Non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemia occurs when DNA synthesis is unimpaired::impaired or unimpaired"
"Does non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemia present with hypersegmented neutrophils? No"
"Non-hereditary causes of non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemia include liver disease and alcoholism"
"Normocytic anemia is either due to peripheral destruction (hemolysis) or underproduction"
"What measure is used to distinguish between peripheral destruction and underproduction in normocytic anemia? Reticulocyte count"
"Reticulocytes are young RBCs released from the bone marrow"
"Reticulocytes are identified on blood smear as large::size RBCs with a(n) bluish::color cytoplasm"
"Reticulocytes have a bluish cytoplasm on Wright-Giemsa stain due to presence of residual ribosomal RNA"
"A normal reticulocyte count is between 1 to 2%"
"A properly functioning marrow responds to anemia by increasing the reticulocyte count to > 3%"
"Reticulocyte count may be falsely elevated in anemia"
"Reticulocyte count in anemia can be corrected by multiplying reticulocyte count by Hct/45"
"What is the general underlying cause of a normocytic anemia with a corrected reticulocyte count > 3%? Peripheral destruction (hemolysis)"
"What is the general underlying cause of a normocytic anemia with a corrected reticulocyte count < 3%? Underproduction"
"Normocytic anemia due to peripheral destruction is further divided into extravascular and intravascular hemolysis"
"Extra-vascular hemolysis involves RBC destruction by the reticuloendothelial system (RES)"
"The hemoglobin within macrophages that have consumed RBCs is broken down into heme and globin"
"The globin within macrophages that have consumed RBCs is further broken down into amino acids"
"The heme within macrophages that have consumed RBCs is further broken down into iron and protoporphyrin"
"What happens to the iron (from heme) within macrophages that have consumed RBCs? It is recycled"
"The protoporphyrin (from heme) within macrophages that have consumed RBCs is broken down into unconjugated bilirubin"
"Normocytic anemia with extra-vascular hemolysis is associated with enlargement of the spleen (splenomegaly)"
"Why does extravascular hemolysis result in splenomegaly? Hyperplasia of splenic macrophages (red pulp hyperplasia)"
"Normocytic anemia with extravascular hemolysis is associated with jaundice due to increased serum unconjugated bilirubin"
"Normocytic anemia with extravascular hemolysis is associated with increased risk for bilirubin gallstones"
"Normocytic anemia with extravascular hemolysis is associated with marrow hyperplasia with corrected reticulocyte count > 3%"
"Intra-vascular hemolysis involves destruction of RBCs within vessels"
"Intra-vascular hemolysis results in passage of hemoglobin into the blood"
"Some of the hemoglobin in the blood due to intravascular hemolysis is returned to the spleen by haptoglobin molecules"
"Normocytic anemia with intra-vascular hemolysis is associated with decreased serum haptoglobin"
"Normocytic anemia with intra-vascular hemolysis may cause leakage of hemoglobin into the blood and urine"
"Days after an episode of intra-vascular hemolysis, hemosiderin may be seen in the urine"
"What enzyme may be elevated in hemolytic anemia (both extra- and intravascular)? Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)"
"Extra- and intravascular hemolysis may present with increased urobilinogen in the urine, which results from increased conjugated bilirubin"
"Does extravascular hemolysis present with hemoglobinuria and/or hemosiderinuria? No"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is a cause of microcytic or normocytic::MCV anemia"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is primarily characterized by extravascular hemolysis"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is due to an inherited defect of RBC cytoskeleton-membrane tethering proteins"
"Hereditary spherocytosis most commonly involves defects in ankyrin, spectrin, band 3.1, or protein 4.2"
"What RBC pathology is characterized by formation and loss of membrane blebs over time? Hereditary spherocytosis"
"Loss of membrane blebs in hereditary spherocytosis renders RBCs round (spherocytes) instead of disc-shaped"
"Spherocytes are less able to maneuver through splenic sinusoids and are thus consumed by splenic macrophages"
"Spherocytes are characterized by no central pallor"
"Spherocytes are pathologic RBCs that have a(n) increased mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC)"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is characterized by a(n) increased RDW"
"Compared to younger spherocytes, older spherocytes are smaller::size"
"Patients with hereditary spherocytosis are at risk of aplastic crisis with parvovirus B19 infection of erythroid precursors"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is diagnosed by the osmotic fragility test"
"Hereditary spherocytosis demonstrates increased spherocyte fragility in hypo-tonic solution (osmotic fragility test)"
"What is the treatment for severe or refractory hereditary spherocytosis? Splenectomy"
"Does anemia persist following splenectomy in a patient with hereditary spherocytosis? No"
"Do spherocytes persist following splenectomy in a patient with hereditary spherocytosis? Yes"
"What finding emerges on blood smear following splenectomy in a patient with hereditary spherocytosis? Howell-Jolly bodies"
"Sickle cell anemia is a cause of normocytic::MCV anemia"
"Does sickle cell anemia result in extravascular or intravascular hemolysis? Both :)"
"Sickle cell anemia is caused by a mutation in the β chain of hemoglobin"
"What is the mode of inheritance of sickle cell anemia? Autosomal recessive"
"Sickle cell anemia occurs due to a point mutation that substitutes glutamic acid (hydrophilic) with valine (hydrophobic)"
"The sickle cell (HbS) allele is carried by 8 - 10% of African Americans"
"The high prevalence of the sickle cell allele in Africans is likely due to its protective role against Plasmodium falciparum malaria"
"Does sickle cell trait (one HbS allelle) protect against malaria? Yes"
"Sickle cell disease arises when two abnormal β genes are present; results in >90% HbS in RBCs"
"When exposed to conditions that favor the taut form of Hemoglobin, HbS polymerizes and forms needle-like structures (\sickle cells\\")\""
"In addition to sickle cells, what other pathological RBC is seen on blood smear in a sickle cell disease patient? Target cells"
"What are the three main conditions which precipitate sickling in sickle cell anemia? Hypoxemia, dehydration, and acidosis"
"How does sickle cell anemia present in newborns? Why? Asymptomatic (high HbF, low HbS)"
"What form of hemoglobin protects against sickling in sickle cell anemia? HbF"
"Sickle cell anemia is associated with extramedullary hematopoiesis, which initially leads to enlargement of the liver and the spleen"
"Sickle cell anemia is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into facial bones, leading to \chipmunk facies\\"\""
"Sickle cell anemia is characterized by expansion of hematopoiesis into the skull, leading to a \crewcut\\" appearance on X-ray\""
"Patients with sickle cell anemia are at risk of aplastic crisis with parvovirus B19 infection of erythroid precursors"
"Irreversible sickling in sickle cell anemia leads to complications of vaso-occlusion"
"Vaso-occlusive infarcts in bones of the hands and feet due to sickle cell anemia cause dactylitis (painful swelling of hands and feet)"
"Dactylitis is a common presenting sign of sickle cell anemia in infants::age group"
"One complication of sickle cell anemia is auto-splenectomy"
"One consequence of autosplenectomy in sickle cell disease is increased risk of infection with encapsulated organisms"
"Asplenic sickle cell disease patients are commonly infected with Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, and Haemophilus influenzae"
"One consequence of autosplenectomy in sickle cell disease is increased risk of osteomyelitis due to Salmonella paratyphi infection"
"One consequence of autosplenectomy in sickle cell disease is presence of Howell-Jolly bodies and target cells on blood smear"
"Vaso-occlusive infarcts in the pulmonary microcirculation due to sickle cell anemia causes acute chest syndrome"
"What complication of sickle cell anemia presents with chest pain, SOB, and lung infiltrates? Acute chest syndrome"
"Acute chest syndrome in patients with sickle cell anemia is often precipitated by pneumonia"
"What renal pathology is associated with sickle cell anemia? Renal papillary necrosis"
"Sickle cell disease (and trait) may cause microhematuria due to medullary infarcts"
"What is the most common cause of death in children with sickle cell anemia? Infection with encapsulated organisms"
"What is the most common cause of death in adult sickle cell anemia patients? Acute chest syndrome"
"What is the cause of painful crisis in patients with sickle cell anemia? Vaso-occlusion"
"Sickle cell trait is characterized by the presence of only one mutated β-chain"
"Sickle cell trait results in < 50% HbS in RBCs"
"How does sickle cell trait typically present? Generally asymptomatic (no anemia)"
"The extreme hypoxia and hypertonicity of the renal medulla may cause sickling in patients with sickle cell trait"
"Microinfarctions in the renal medulla due to sickle cell trait eventually result in decreased ability to concentrate urine"
"The metabisulfite screen causes cells with any amount of HbS to sickle"
"Is the metabisulfite screen positive in sickle cell disease or trait? Both :)"
"Diagnosis of sickle cell anemia is confirmed by hemoglobin electrophoresis::test"
"What RBC pathology is characterized by the following Hb electrophoresis findings: 90% HbS, 8% HbF, and 2% HbA2 (no HbA) Sickle cell disease"
"What RBC pathology is characterized by the following Hb electrophoresis findings: 55% HbA, 43% HbS, and 2% HbA2 Sickle cell trait"
"Sickle cell anemia is treated with hydroxyurea and hydration"
"Hydroxyurea is useful in the treatment of sickle cell anemia because it increases levels of HbF (typically greater than 15%)"
"Hemoglobin C disease is a cause of normocytic::MCV anemia"
"Hemoglobin C disease is primarily characterized by extravascular hemolysis"
"Hemoglobin C disease is caused by a mutation in the β chain of hemoglobin"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Hemoglobin C disease? Autosomal recessive"
"Hemoglobin C disease occurs due to a point mutation that substitutes glutamic acid with lysine"
"Blood smear of a patient with hemoglobin C disease may show target cells and/or HbC crystals within RBCs"
"Patients with HbSC (1 of each mutant gene) have milder::severity disease than HbSS patients"
"Evolutionarily, hepcidin is upregulated to prevent pathogens from accessing iron"
"Decay accelerating factor (DAF) on the surface of blood cells protects against complement-mediated damage by inhibiting C3 convertase::specific"
"Decay accelerating factor (DAF/CD55) and Membrane Inhibitor of Reactive Lysis (MIRL/CD59) are secured to the RBC cell membrane by GPI, which serves as an anchoring glycolipid"
"Absence of GPI in blood cells leads to absence of DAF and MIRL, thus rendering cells susceptible to complement-mediated destruction"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is caused by an acquired defect in hematopoeitic stem cells, resulting in absent GPI"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is a cause of normocytic::MCV anemia"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is primarily characterized by intravascular hemolysis"
"The intravascular hemolysis caused by paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria occurs episodically, often while sleeping"
"During sleep, mild respiratory acidosis develops due to shallow breathing causing activation of complement, which may then trigger PNH"
"What test is used to screen for paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria? Sucrose test"
"Patients with Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria can present with Abdominal Pain, Dysphagia, and Erectile Dysfunction because hemoglobin can act as a(n) Nitric Oxide scavenger"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria may be confirmed via flow cytometry, which detects a lack of CD-55 and CD-59"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is characterized by (PNH Thrombosis) - Pancytopenia - Nocturnal build up of Red/Pink Urine - coombs (-) Hemolytic anemia - venous Thrombosis"
"What is the main cause of death in patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria? Venous thrombosis"
"What type of microcytic anemia may be caused by paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria? Iron deficiency anemia"
"What cancer has a higher incidence in patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria? Acute myeloid leukemia (AML)::specific"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria may be treated with eculizumab, which is a terminal complement inhibitor"
"Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency is a disorder resulting in reduced half-life of G6PD"
"What is the mode of inheritance of G6PD deficiency? X-linked recessive"
"RBCs are normally exposed to oxidative stress, especially by H2O2::chemical"
"H2O2 may be neutralized by reduced glutathione (an antioxidant)"
"NADPH, a by-product of G6PD, is needed to regenerate reduced glutathione"
"G6PD deficiency renders RBCs susceptible to oxidative stress"
"G6PD deficiency is a cause of normocytic::MCV anemia"
"G6PD deficiency is characterized primarily by intravascular hemolysis"
"The African variant of G6PD deficiency results in mildly reduced half-life of G6PD"
"The Mediterranean variant of G6PD deficiency results in markedly reduced half-life of G6PD"
"High carrier frequency of the mutant G6PD allele is likely due to its protective role against Plasmodium falciparum malaria"
"In G6PD deficiency, oxidative stress precipitates denaturated hemoglobin as Heinz bodies"
"In G6PD deficiency, Heinz bodies are removed from RBCs by splenic macrophages, resulting in formation of bite cells"
"G6PD deficiency presents with hemoglobin-uria and back pain hours after exposure to oxidative stress"
"What is the most common cause of oxidative stress in patients with G6PD deficiency? Infection"
"What mediterranean food may be a source of oxidative stress in patients with G6PD deficiency? Fava beans"
"What class of drugs are contraindicated in patients with G6PD deficiency? Sulfa drugs"
"Anti-malarial drugs, such as primaquine, may induce oxidative stress and are thus contraindicated in patients with G6PD deficiency"
"Anti-tuberculosis drugs, such as dapsone, may induce oxidative stress and are thus contraindicated in patients with G6PD deficiency"
"What is the most common enzymatic disorder of RBCs? G6PD deficiency"
"What test is performed to screen for G6PD deficiency? Heinz preparation"
"The diagnosis of G6PD deficiency is confirmed via enzyme studies, which are performed weeks after a hemolytic episode resolves"
"Immune hemolytic anemia (IHA) is the antibody-mediated destruction of RBCs"
"The antibodies in immune hemolytic anemia are either IgG or IgM"
"IgG-mediated immune hemolytic anemia usually causes extravascular hemolysis"
"Which form of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (IgG or IgM) is also known as warm agglutinin disease? IgG"
"In IgG-mediated hemolytic anemia, the membrane of the antibody-coated RBCs is consumed by splenic macrophages, resulting in spherocyte formation"
"What is the most common cause of IgG-mediated immune hemolytic anemia? SLE"
"Which form of immune hemolytic anemia is associated with SLE? IgG::IgG or IgM"
"What cancer is associated with IgG-mediated immune hemolytic anemia? Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)"
"Which form of immune hemolytic anemia may be caused by drugs? IgG::IgG or IgM"
"Certain drugs (e.g. penicillin), bind to RBC membranes, leading to formation of antibodies against the drug-RBC complex (IgG-mediated hemolytic anemia)"
"Certain drugs (e.g. α-methyldopa) induce production of autoantibodies against RBCs (IgG-mediated hemolytic anemia)"
"Treatment of IgG-mediated hemolytic anemia involves cessation of the offending drug (if applicable) and steroids; may also use IVIG for temporary relief"
"What is the last resort treatment for IgG-mediated hemolytic anemia? Splenectomy"
"IgM-mediated immune hemolytic anemia usually causes intravascular hemolysis"
"Which form of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (IgG or IgM) is also known as cold agglutinin disease? IgM"
"When temperatures drop below 30*C, IgM AIHA antibodies may bind RBCs and activate complement"
"In IgM-mediated hemolytic anemia, RBCs inactivate complement but residual C3b serves as an opsonin for splenic macrophages, resulting in spherocyte formation"
"IgM-mediated hemolytic anemia is commonly associated with Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection and infectious mononucleosis"
"What cancer may be associated with IgM-mediated immune hemolytic anemia? Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)"
"Which form of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (IgG or IgM) causes painful, blue fingers and toes with cold exposure? IgM (cold agglutinin)"
"What test is used to diagnose immune hemolytic anemia? Coombs test"
"The direct Coombs test adds anti-human globulin (Coombs reagent) to a sample of a patient's RBCs"
"The direct Coombs test answers the question: \Are the patient's RBCs already bound by immunoglobulin (or complement)?\\"\""
"The indirect Coombs test adds donor blood and anti-Ig antibody (Coombs reagent) to the patient's serum"
"The indirect Coombs test answers the question: \Does the patient have antibodies in their serum?\\"\""
"Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) is primarily characterized by intravascular hemolysis"
"Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia occurs due to damage of RBCs as they pass through obstructed or narrowed vessels (e.g. due to microthrombi)"
"What type of anemia is caused by TTP, HUS, DIC, and HELLP? Microangiopathic hemolytic anemia"
"Macroangiopathic hemolytic anemia may be seen with prosthetic heart valves and aortic stenosis"
"What pathological RBC is associated with micro- and macroangiopathic hemolytic anemia? Schistocytes (\helmet cells\\")\""
"Malaria is due to infection of RBCs and the liver with Plasmodium species"
"Plasmodium malaria is transmitted by the Anopheles mosquito"
"In malaria, RBCs rupture as part of the Plasmodium life cycle, resulting in intravascular hemolysis and cyclical fever"
"Malaria due to Plasmodium falciparum is characterized by fever everyday::everyday or every other day"
"Malaria due to Plasmodium vivax or Plasmodium ovale is characterized by fever every other day (everyday or every other day)"
"What other infectious organism causes symptoms similar to malaria (fever, hemolytic anemia)? Babesia"
"Anemia due to underproduction may occur with chronic kidney disease, due to decreased production of EPO"
"One cause of anemia due to underproduction is parvovirus B19, which infects progenitor red cells and temporarily halts erythropoiesis"
"What is the treatment for parvovirus B19 infection? supportive (infection is self-limited)"
"Aplastic anemia occurs due to damage to hematopoietic stem cells, resulting in pancytopenia (anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukopenia)"
"Aplastic anemia may be induced by radiation and drugs (e.g. benzene, chloramphenicol, alkylating agents, antimetabolites)"
"Aplastic anemia may be induced by viral agents (e.g. parvovirus B19, EBV, HIV, hepatitis)"
"Aplastic anemia may be caused by Fanconi anemia, which occurs due to a(n) dsDNA repair defect, resulting in bone marrow failure"
"Fanconi anemia is associated with short stature, café au lait spots, and malformed forearms and/or thumbs"
"Fanconi anemia is associated with an increased risk of developing cancer (e.g. tumors, leukemia)"
"The cause of aplastic anemia may be immune-mediated and sometimes follows acute hepatitis"
"Aplastic anemia is characterized by decreased reticulocyte count and increased erythropoietin"
"Aplastic anemia is characterized by an empty, fatty::characteristic marrow on biopsy (\dry marrow tap\\")\""
"Treatment of aplastic anemia includes marrow-stimulating factors, such as EPO, GM-CSF, and G-CSF"
"Treatment of aplastic anemia involves transfusions of RBCs and platelets"
"Treatment of aplastic anemia with immunosuppression may be helpful as some idiopathic cases are due to abnormal T-cell activation with release of cytokines"
"What is a last resort treatment for aplastic anemia? Bone marrow transplant"
"Myelophthisic process is a pathologic process that replaces bone marrow (e.g. metastatic cancer)"
"The levels of TBG and total thyroid hormone are decreased with hepatic failure, steroid use, and nephrotic syndrome"
"Erythrocytes (RBCs) carry O2 to tissues and CO2 to lungs"
"Do erythrocytes (RBCs) contain a nucleus? No (anucleate)"
"Do erythrocytes (RBCs) contain organelles? No"
"Erythrocytes are biconcave in shape, with a large surface area-to-volume ratio for rapid gas exchange"
"The average life-span of an erythrocyte is approximately 120 days"
"What is the source of energy in erythrocytes? Glucose"
"In erythrocytes, 90% of glucose is used for glycolysis"
"In erythrocytes, 10% of glucose is used for the HMP shunt"
"What antiporter is present in the membrane of erythrocytes? Cl-/HCO3- antiporter"
"Aniso-cytosis refers to cells of varying sizes"
"Poikilo-cytosis refers to cells of varying shapes"
"Platelets (thrombocytes) are small cytoplasmic fragments derived from megakaryocytes"
"Platelets (thrombocytes) have a life span of 8 to 10 days"
"Approximately one-third of the platelet pool is stored in the spleen"
"What skin finding is associated with thrombocytopenia and/or decreased platelet function? Petechiae"
"The dense granules of platelets contain ADP and Ca2+"
"The α granules of platelets contain vWF, fibrinogen, and fibronectin"
"Leukocytes (WBCs) are divided into mononuclear cells and granulocytes"
"What is the most common type of leukocyte (54 - 62%)? Neutrophils"
"Which leukocyte is most involved in an acute inflammatory response? Neutrophils"
"Neutrophils are increased in response to bacterial infections"
"What type of cell is represented in the image below? Neutrophil"
"Are neutrophils phagocytic? Yes"
"Which type of leukocyte differentiates into macrophages in tissue? Monocytes"
"Which type of leukocyte has a large, kidney shaped nucleus with a \frosted glass\\" cytoplasm? Monocyte\""
"What type of cell is represented in the image below? Monocyte"
"Macrophages differentiate from circulating blood monocytes"
"Macrophages phagocytose bacteria, cellular debris, and RBCs"
"What type of leukocyte defends against helminthic infections? Eosinophils"
"Which type of leukocyte has a bilobulate nucleus? Eosinophil"
"What type of cell is represented in the image below? Eosinophil"
"Eosinophils produce major basic protein, which destroys parasites and is responsible for epithelial cell damage in asthma"
"Eosinophils produce compounds that deal with parasites, including major basic protein, histaminase and arylsulfatase B"
"Eosinophils are highly phagocytic for antigen-antibody complexes"
"The causes of eosinophilia may be remembered with the mnemonic \PACCMAN\\": P: parasites A: asthma C: Churg-Strauss syndrome C: chronic adrenal insufficiency M: Myeloproliferative disorders A: allergic processes N: neoplasia (ex. Hodgkin lymphoma)\""
"Which type of leukocyte is able to synthesize and release leukotrienes on demand? Basophil"
"The granules of basophils contain heparin and histamine (anticoagulant and vasodilator, respectively)"
"Baso-philia is uncommon, but can be a sign of myeloproliferative disease, particularly CML"
"What type of cell is represented in the image below? Basophil"
"Basophils mediate allergic reactions"
"Mast cells mediate allergic reactions in local tissues"
"Mast cells can bind the Fc portion of IgE"
"Cromolyn sodium and Nedocromil prevent mast cell degranulation (used for asthma prophylaxis)"
"Dendritic cells function as a link between the innate and adaptive immune systems"
"Dendritic cells are called Langerhans cells in the skin"
"What class of cells have a round, densely stained nucleus with a small amount of cytoplasm? Lymphocytes (e.g. B cells, T cells, NK cells)"
"Plasma cells produce a large amount of antibody specific to a particular antigen"
"Which type of cell has a \clock-face\\" chromatin distribution and an eccentric nucleus? Plasma cell\""
"What type of cell is represented in the image below? Plasma cell"
"Where are plasma cells typically found? Bone marrow"
"Do plasma cells normally circulate in peripheral blood? No"
"Fetal erythropoiesis occurs in the yolk sac from 3 to 8 weeks"
"Fetal erythropoiesis occurs in the liver from 6 weeks to birth"
"Fetal erythropoiesis occurs in the spleen from 10 to 28 weeks"
"Fetal erythropoiesis occurs in the bone marrow from 18 weeks to adulthood"
"The two embryonic globins are zeta (ζ) and epsilon (ε)"
"The central nervous system consists of the brain and spinal cord"
"What is the embryonic origin of CNS neurons? Neural tube (neuroectoderm)"
"The peripheral nervous system consists of the cranial and spinal nerves, which give rise to axons and neurons"
"What is the embryonic origin of PNS neurons? Neural crest"
"What is the embryonic origin of chromaffin cells? Neural crest"
"Chromaffin cells migrate into the adrenal medulla to form post-ganglionic sympathetic neurons"
"Neurulation begins in the third week of fetal development"
"The notochord induces the overlying ectoderm to form the neural plate (neuroectoderm) and not the neural tube"
"By the end of the third week, neural folds grow over the midline and fuse to form the neural tube"
"During closure of neural folds, the neural crest cells form from neuroectoderm"
"The neural tube begins as three::number primary vesicles"
"The most superior of the 3 primary vesicles (developing brain) is the forebrain (prosencephalon)"
"The middle of the 3 primary vesicles (developing brain) is the midbrain"
"The most inferior of the 3 primary vesicles (developing brain) is the hindbrain (rhombencephalon)"
"The forebrain/prosencephalon (primary vesicle) matures into the telencephalon and diencephalon (secondary vesicles)"
"What is the adult derivative of the wall of the telencephalon? Cerebral hemispheres"
"What is the adult derivative of the cavity of the telencephalon? Lateral ventricles::specific"
"What are the adult derivatives of the wall of the diencephalon? Thalamus, hypothalamus, epithalamus and optic cup/nerves (retina)"
"The midbrain (primary vesicle) matures into the mesencephalon (secondary vesicle)"
"What is the adult derivative of the wall of the mesencephalon? Midbrain"
"What is the adult derivative of the cavity of the mesencephalon? Cerebral aqueduct"
"The hindbrain (primary vesicle) matures into the metencephalon and myelencephalon (secondary vesicles)"
"What are the adult derivatives of the wall of the metencephalon? Pons and cerebellum"
"What is the adult derivative of the cavity of the metencephalon? Upper part of 4th ventricle"
"What is the adult derivative of the wall of the myelencephalon? Medulla"
"What is the adult derivative of the cavity of the myelencephalon? Lower part of 4th ventricle"
"The embryonic brain stem and spinal cord have a(n) dorsally-located alar plate"
"The embryonic alar plate gives rise to sensory::motor or sensory derivatives"
"The embryonic brain stem and spinal cord have a(n) ventrally-located basal plate"
"The embryonic basal plate gives rise to motor::motor or sensory derivatives"
"The alar plate and basal plate are separated by the sulcus limitans"
"The autonomic nervous system is composed of two divisions: sympathetic and parasympathetic"
"The autonomic nervous system usually reaches its target via two neuron(s)"
"The pre-ganglionic neurons of the ANS have cell bodies in the central nervous system"
"The post-ganglionic neurons of the ANS have cell bodies in the peripheral nervous system"
"All pre-ganglionic neurons utilize acetylcholine as their neurotransmitter"
"The acetylcholine from pre-ganglionic neurons of the ANS binds to neural nicotinic (NN) receptors"
"All post-ganglionic parasympathetic neurons utilize acetylcholine as their neurotransmitter"
"The acetylcholine from post-ganglionic neurons of the ANS binds to muscarinic (M) receptors"
"Post-ganglionic sympathetic neurons may utilize norepinephrine as a neurotransmitter, which binds to α1, α2, and β1 receptors"
"Post-ganglionic sympathetic neurons may utilize epinephrine as a neurotransmitter, which binds to α1, α2, β1, and β2 receptors"
"Post-ganglionic sympathetic neurons utilize acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter in sweat glands"
"The adrenal medulla exerts its post-ganglionic sympathetic effects via neurohumoral transmission"
"Parasympathetic neurons have long pre-ganglionic and short post-ganglionic neurons"
"Sympathetic neurons have short pre-ganglionic and long post-ganglionic neurons"
"The somatic nervous system reaches its target via one::# neuron(s)"
"The somatic nervous system utilizes acetylcholine as its neurotransmitter"
"The acetylcholine from the somatic nervous system binds to muscle nicotinic (NM) receptors in the NMJ of skeletal muscle"
"Nerves of the somatic nervous system innervate skeletal muscle"
"The parasympathetic NS is characterized by a(n) craniosacral distribution of parasympathetic neurons"
"Which cranial nerves carry parasympathetics? III, VII, IX, X::4"
"Which sacral nerves carry parasympathetics? S2 - S4"
"The sympathetic NS is characterized by a(n) thoracolumbar distribution of sympathetic neurons"
"All pre-ganglionic sympathetic neurons can synapse in sympathetic chain (paravertebral) ganglia"
"Pre-ganglionic sympathetic neurons from T5 - L2 can bypass the sympathetic chain and synapse in prevertebral (pre-aortic) ganglia (splanchnic nerves)"
"What is the adult derivative of the cavity of the diencephalon? Third ventricle"
"What type of cell (permanent, labile, stable) are neurons? Permanent (do not divide in adulthood)"
"Which part of the neuron receives input from the axons of other neurons? Dendrites"
"Which part of the neuron contains organelles (e.g. Golgi, ER, etc.)? Cell body (Soma)"
"Which part of the neuron sends output (electrical impulses) to other neurons? Axons"
"The proximal part of an axon is usually marked by a(n) axon hillock, which is a tapered extension of the cell body that lacks Nissl substance"
"Which part of the neuron contains synaptic vesicles that store and release neurotransmitter into the synapse? Axon (nerve) terminal"
"The cell body and dendrites, but not the axon of a neuron can be seen histologically with Nissl staining, which stains RER"
"Glial cells refer to the non-neuronal cells of nervous system"
"Oligodendrocytes are responsible for myelinating axons of neurons in the central nervous system"
"Each oligodendrocyte can myelinate many axon(s)"
"Oligodendrocytes are the predominant type of glial cell in white matter"
"Oligodendrocytes have a \fried egg\\" appearance histologically\""
"What is the embryonic origin of oligodendrocytes? Neural tube (neuroectoderm)::specific"
"Astrocytes are glial cells that help mediate K+ ion metabolism"
"Which type of glial cell acts as a glycogen fuel reserve buffer? Astrocytes"
"Astrocytes are glial cells that provide physical support and repair for the nervous system"
"Astrocytes help maintain the blood-brain-barrier via foot processes"
"Astrocytes are glial cells that are capable of removing excess neurotransmitters"
"What protein is used as an astrocyte marker? GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein)"
"Astrocytes are glial cells that are responsible for reactive gliosis::specific repair in response to neural injury"
"What is the embryonic origin of astrocytes? Neural tube (neuroectoderm)"
"Schwann cells are responsible for myelinating axons of neurons in the peripheral nervous system"
"Each Schwann cell can myelinate one axon(s)"
"In myelinated cells, nodes of Ranvier increase conduction velocity via saltatory conduction"
"At the nodes of Ranvier, there is a high concentration of Na+ channels"
"Myelin wraps and insulates axons, thus increasing the space (length) constant"
"Myelin wraps and insulates axons, thus decreasing the time constant"
"Conduction velocity is increased when the time constant is decreased"
"Conduction velocity is increased when the space (length) constant is increased"
"What is the embryonic origin of Schwann cells? Neural crest"
"Ependymal cells line the ventricles in the adult brain"
"Ependymal cells have cilia, which helps circulate CSF"
"Some ependymal cells differentiate into choroid epithelial cells, which produce CSF"
"What is the embryonic origin of ependymal cells? Neural tube (neuroectoderm)"
"Which type of glial cell is a derivative of mononuclear phagocytes? Microglia"
"Microglia are activated in response to tissue damage"
"Can microglia be distinguished by Nissl stain histologically? No"
"What is the embryonic origin of microglia? Mesoderm"
"Pericytes are microglia that contribute to the blood-brain barrier"
"Microglia fuse to form multinucleated giant cells in the CNS when infected by HIV"
"What type of filament is used by axons for axonal transport (retrograde and anterograde)? Microtubules"
"Which molecular motor protein is used for anterograde axonal transport? Kinesin"
"Which molecular motor protein is used for retrograde axonal transport? Dynein"
"The blood-brain barrier prevents circulating blood substances (e.g. bacteria, drugs) from reaching the CSF / CNS"
"One component of the blood-brain barrier is tight junctions between non-fenestrated capillary endothelial cells"
"One component of the blood-brain barrier is a(n) basement membrane"
"One component of the blood-brain barrier is foot processes from astrocytes"
"Non-polar and lipid-soluble substances cross the blood-brain barrier rapidly via diffusion"
"Glucose and amino acids cross the blood-brain barrier slowly via carrier-mediated transport mechanisms"
"Na+ and K+ ions cross the blood-brain barrier via ion channels"
"Distal to a site of CNS or PNS axon injury there is anterograde (Wallerian) degeneration"
"The closer a destructive axon lesion is to the neuronal cell body, the more likely the neuron is to die"
"Proximal to a site of CNS or PNS axon injury there is retrograde degeneration"
"In response to axon damage, the neuron cell body undergoes Axonal reaction, which is the swelling of the cell body and dispersion of Nissl substance (this process is called chromatolysis)"
"Axons that are myelinated by Schwann cells have the potential to regenerate following injury"
"Do axons myelinated by oligodendrocytes have the potential to regenerate following injury? No"
"The lateral ventricles consist of a body and anterior, posterior, and inferior horns"
"The lateral ventricle drains into the 3rd ventricle via the foramen of Monro"
"The 3rd ventricle drains into the 4th ventricle via the cerebral aqueduct (of Sylvius)"
"The CSF in the 4th ventricle may enter the subarachnoid space via the lateral foramina (2) of Luschka"
"The CSF in the 4th ventricle may enter the subarachnoid space via the medial foramen (1) of Magendie"
"Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is made by ependymal cells of choroid plexus"
"CSF in the subarachnoid space is reabsorbed through arachnoid granulations, which drain into dural venous sinuses"
"Which dural venous sinus is the main location of CSF return via arachnoid granulations? Superior sagittal sinus"
"The superior sagittal sinus drains into the confluence of sinuses"
"The confluence of sinuses drain into transverse sinuses"
"The transverse sinuses drain into the sigmoid sinuses"
"Each sigmoid sinus exits the skull via the jugular foramen as an internal jugular vein"
"The inferior sagittal sinus terminates by joining with the great cerebral vein of Galen to form the straight sinus"
"The straight sinus drains into the confluence of sinuses"
"The spinal cord is housed in the vertebral canal"
"There are 31 pairs of spinal nerves in total"
"There are 8 cervical pairs of spinal nerves"
"There are 12 thoracic pairs of spinal nerves"
"There are 5 lumbar pairs and sacral pairs of spinal nerves"
"There is/are one coccygeal pair of spinal nerves"
"Nerves C1 - C8 exit above the corresponding vertebra"
"The L2 nerve exits below the L2 vertebra"
"Inside the spinal cord, gray matter is centrally located"
"Which matter in the spinal cord contains neuronal cell bodies, their dendrites, and the proximal parts of axons? Gray matter"
"Inside the spinal cord, white matter is peripherally located"
"Which matter in the spinal cord contains functionally similar axons called tracts or fasciculi? White matter"
"In adults, the spinal cord ends at the lower border of the L1 - L2 vertebrae"
"In the adult spinal cord, subarachnoid space extends to the lower border of S2 vertebrae"
"Lumbar puncture is usually performed between L3 and L5"
"Do dorsal rami of spinal nerves contain sensory or motor neurons? Both :)"
"Do dorsal roots of spinal nerves contain sensory or motor neurons? Sensory neurons"
"Do ventral roots of spinal nerves contain sensory or motor neurons? Motor neurons"
"The neuronal cell bodies of the dorsal roots of spinal nerves are found in dorsal root ganglia"
"The neuronal cell bodies of the ventral roots of spinal nerves are found in the ventral horn of the spinal cord"
"The dorsal horn of gray matter contains sensory neurons"
"The ventral horn of gray matter contains motor neurons"
"The conus medullaris is the caudal end of the spinal cord; ends at L2 vertebra in adults"
"The cauda equina comprises the nerve roots of lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal spinal nerves below the conus medullaris"
"The filum terminale is slender pial extension that tethers the spinal cord to the bottom of the vertebral column"
"What type of nerve fibers sense proprioception in the medial dorsal horn of the spinal cord? Ia and Ib::2"
"What type of nerve fibers sense touch in the medial dorsal horn of the spinal cord? II and A-beta::2"
"What type of nerve fibers sense sharp pain & cold in the lateral dorsal horn of the spinal cord? III and A-delta::2"
"What type of nerve fibers sense dull pain & warmth in the lateral dorsal horn of the spinal cord? IV and C::2"
"The ventral horn of the spinal cord contains both alpha and gamma motor neurons, which make muscles contract and regulate muscle spindle sensitivity, respectively"
"Αlpha::alpha or gamma motor neurons make skeletal muscle contract"
"Gamma::alpha or gamma motor neurons make muscle spindles more sensitive to stretch"
"Within the ventral horn, alpha and gamma motoneurons that innervate flexors are located more dorsally"
"Within the ventral horn, alpha and gamma motoneurons that innervate extensors are located more ventrally"
"Within the ventral horn, alpha and gamma motoneurons that innervate more proximal structures are located medially"
"Within the ventral horn, alpha and gamma motoneurons that innervate more distal structures are located laterally"
"How many neurons are required for the lateral corticospinal tract pathway (voluntary muscle movement)? Two (UMN & LMN)"
"Lower motoneurons are found in the ventral horn of the spinal cord and cranial nerve nuclei in the brain stem"
"The cell bodies of upper motoneurons are primarily found in the primary motor cortex (precentral gyrus)"
"The axons of upper motoneurons of peripheral nerves are found in the corticospinal tract"
"The fibers in the corticospinal tract leave the cerebral cortex in the posterior limb of the internal capsule"
"Most (80-90%) of the corticospinal tract fibers decussate just below the caudal medulla at the pyramidal decussation"
"Upper motoneurons synapse with the cell bodies of lower motoneurons in the ventral (anterior) horn of the spinal cord"
"Lower motoneurons leave the spinal cord and synapse at the neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscle"
"Lower motoneurons are always ipsi-lateral to the muscle they innervate"
"Upper motoneurons initially descend contra-lateral to the LMNs they innervate"
"The corticospinal tract in the brain is responsible for voluntary movement of contra-lateral limbs"
"Is the lateral corticospinal tract an ascending or descending tract? Descending"
"The motor component of skeletal muscle reflexes is mediated by lower::upper or lower motoneurons"
"Upper motoneurons provide descending control over reflexes"
"Alpha motoneurons innervate extra-fusal muscle fibers"
"Gamma motoneurons innervate intra-fusal muscle fibers"
"In the muscle stretch reflex, stretch increases afferent impulses via Ia nerve fibers"
"In the muscle stretch reflex, some Ia afferent fibers stimulate agonist::agonist or antagonist muscles causing muscle contraction"
"In the muscle stretch reflex, some Ia afferent fibers inhibit antagonist::agonist or antagonist muscles through interneurons causing muscle relaxation"
"The inverse muscle stretch reflex uses Golgi tendon organs to monitor muscle tension"
"In the inverse muscle stretch reflex, increased tension increases afferent impulses via Ib nerve fibers"
"In the inverse muscle stretch reflex, some Ib afferent fibers inhibit agonist::agonist or antagonist muscles causing muscle relaxation"
"The Achilles reflex tests nerve roots S1 and S2 (tibial nerve)"
"The patella reflex tests nerve roots L3 and L4 (femoral nerve)"
"The biceps reflex tests nerve roots C5 and C6 (musculocutaneous nerve)"
"The triceps reflex tests nerve roots C7 and C8 (radial nerve)"
"The cremasteric reflex tests nerve roots L1 and L2"
"The anal wink reflex tests nerve roots S3 and S4"
"Do upper motoneuron lesions present with weakness? Yes"
"Do upper motoneuron lesions typically present with atrophy? No*"
"Do upper motoneuron lesions present with fasciculations? No"
"Upper motoneuron lesions may cause hyper-reflexia"
"Upper motoneuron lesions may cause increased tone"
"Do upper motoneuron lesions present with the Babinski sign? Yes"
"Upper motoneuron lesions may cause spastic::spastic or flaccid paralysis"
"Do upper motoneuron lesions present with clasp knife spasticity? Yes"
"Do lower motoneuron lesions present with weakness? Yes"
"Do lower motoneuron lesions present with atrophy? Yes"
"Do lower motoneuron lesions present with fasciculations? Yes"
"Lower motoneuron lesions may cause hypo-reflexia"
"Lower motoneuron lesions may cause decreased tone"
"Do lower motoneuron lesions present with the Babinski sign? No"
"Lower motoneuron lesions may cause flaccid::spastic or flaccid paralysis"
"Do lower motoneuron lesions present with clasp knife spasticity? No"
"In what demographic is a Babinski reflex normal? Infants"
"LMN lesions cause ipsi-lateral flaccid paralysis at the level of the lesion"
"UMN lesions in the spinal cord cause ipsi-lateral spastic paralysis at levels below the lesion"
"UMN lesions in the cerebral cortex cause contra-lateral spastic paralysis at levels below the lesion"
"How many neurons are required for the dorsal column-medial lemniscus pathway? Three"
"The dorsal column-medial lemniscal tract carries information for pressure, vibration, fine (discriminative) touch, and proprioception"
"The 1st-order neurons of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal tract are sensory nerve endings with cell bodies located in a(n) DRG"
"The 1st-order neuron of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal tract synapses with a(n) ipsi-lateral nucleus cuneatus or nucleus gracilis"
"The nucleus cuneatus and nucleus gracilis are located in the caudal medulla"
"The 2nd-order neuron of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal tract decussates in the caudal medulla"
"The 2nd-order neuron of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal tract ascends contra-laterally in the medial lemnicscus (brainstem and above)"
"The axons of the 2nd-order neurons of the dorsal column tract coalesce into an axon bundle, known as the medial lemniscus"
"The 2nd-order neurons of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal tract synapse in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus"
"The 3rd-order neuron of the dorsal column-medial lemniscal tract travels to the primary somatosensory cortex (postcentral gyrus)"
"The fasciculus gracilis is the medial::medial or lateral dorsal column"
"The fasciculus cuneatus is the lateral::medial or lateral dorsal column"
"The fasciculus gracilis carries input from the spinal level T7 and below"
"The fasciculus cuneatus carries input from the spinal level T6 and above"
"Lesions of the dorsal column-medial lemniscus tract in the spinal cord present on the ipsi-lateral side below the lesion"
"Lesions of the dorsal column-medial lemniscus tract in the thalamus and cerebral cortex present on the contra-lateral side below the lesion"
"How many neurons are required for the spinothalamic tract (anterolateral system) pathway? Three"
"The lateral spinothalamic tract carries information for pain and temperature from the body and limbs"
"The anterior spinothalamic tract carries information for crude (non-discriminative) touch and pressure"
"The 1st-order neurons of the spinothalamic tract are sensory nerve endings with cell bodies located in a(n) DRG"
"The 1st-order neuron of the spinothalamic tract synapses with a(n) ipsi-lateral cell body in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord"
"The 2nd-order neuron of the spinothalamic tract decussates at the anterior white commissure"
"The 2nd-order neuron of the spinothalamic tract ascends contra-laterally in the spinal cord"
"The 2nd-order neurons of the spinothalamic tract synapse in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus"
"The 3rd-order neuron of the spinothalamic tract travels to the primary somatosensory cortex (postcentral gyrus)"
"Any unilateral lesion of the spinothalamic tract in the spinal cord or brain stem will present on the contra-lateral side 1-2 segments below the lesion"
"The spinocerebellar tracts carry unconscious proprioceptive input from the ipsi-lateral muscle spindles and GTOs to the cerebellum"
"How many neurons are required for the spinocerebellar tract pathway? Two"
"The dorsal spino-cerebellar tract carries unconscious proprioceptive input from the lower extremities/trunk"
"The cuneo-cerebellar tract carries unconscious proprioceptive input from the upper extremities/trunk"
"The cell bodies of the dorsal spinocerebellar tract are found in Clarke’s nucleus, which is situated in the spinal cord from T1 to L2"
"The cell bodies of the cuneocerebellar tract are found in the medulla in the external cuneate nucleus"
"The dorsal spinocerebellar and cuneocerebellar tracts enter the cerebellum via the inferior cerebellar peduncle"
"If there is a large ventral horn, the spinal cord level is between C5 - T1 or L2 - S2"
"If there is a small ventral horn, the spinal cord level is between C1 - C4 or T2 - L1"
"If both dorsal columns are present, the spinal cord is above T5"
"If only one dorsal column is present, the spinal cord is below T5"
"If a lateral horn is present, the spinal cord is between T1 - L2"
"If a lateral horn is absent, the spinal cord is between C1 - C8 or L3 - S5"
"Which spinal cord level contains mostly gray matter (relative to white matter)? Sacral"
"ID Spinal Cord Section: Cervical"
"ID Spinal Cord Section: Thoracic"
"ID Spinal Cord Section: Lumbar"
"ID Spinal Cord Section: Sacral"
"Brown-Sequard syndrome is caused by hemisection of the spinal cord"
"Brown-Sequard syndrome presents with ipsi-lateral upper motoneuron signs below the level of the lesion (due to corticospinal tract damage)"
"Brown-Sequard syndrome presents with ipsi-lateral loss of vibration, proprioception, and touch below the level of the lesion (due to dorsal column damage)"
"Brown-Sequard syndrome presents with contra-lateral loss of pain and temperature below the level of the lesion (due to spinothalamic tract damage)"
"Brown-Sequard syndrome presents with ipsi-lateral loss of all sensation at the level of the lesion"
"Brown-Sequard syndrome presents with ipsi-lateral lower motoneuron signs at the level of the lesion"
"If the lesion in Brown-Sequard syndrome occurs above T1, patients may present with ipsi-lateral Horner syndrome"
"Sensory fibers containing pain and temperature information ascend or descend 1 - 2 spinal segments in Lissauer's tract before synapsing in the dorsal horn with a 2nd-order neuron"
"Poliomyelitis is caused by poliovirus infection"
"Poliovirus is transmitted via a(n) fecal-oral route"
"Poliovirus replicates in the oropharynx and small intestine before spreading via bloodstream to the CNS"
"Poliovirus infection causes selective destruction of lower motoneurons"
"Which horn of the spinal cord is most affected by poliovirus infection? Ventral (anterior) horn"
"What spinal cord level is most commonly affected by poliovirus? Lumbar levels"
"Does poliomyelitis present with symmetric or asymmetric weakness? Asymmetric"
"Poliomyelitis presents with bi-lateral asymmetric weakness"
"What infection can cause this spinal cord lesion? Poliovirus"
"Poliovirus may be recovered from the stool or throat, even before the onset of illness"
"Spinal muscular atrophy is the congenital degeneration of the anterior horns of the spinal cord"
"Werdnig-Hoffmann (SMA Type 1) is caused by a(n) autosomal recessive inherited mutation in the SMN1 gene on chromosome 5q, which factilitates the assembly of snRNPs"
"Werdnig-Hoffmann disease is the infantile form (type 1) of Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)"
"Werdnig-Hoffmann disease presents as a \floppy baby\\" with marked hypotonia and tongue fasciculations\""
"Does spinal muscular atrophy damage upper or lower motoneurons? Lower"
"The infantile type (Werdnig-Hoffman) of Spinal Muscular Atrophy has a median age of death of 7 months"
"Does Spinal muscular atrophy present with symmetric or asymmetric weakness? Symmetric"
"Spinal muscular atrophy presents with bi-lateral symmetric weakness"
"What congenital disorder can cause this spinal cord lesion? Werdnig-Hoffmann (Spinal Muscular Atrophy type 1) disease::specific"
"Tabes dorsalis is a neurologic complication of tertiary syphilis"
"Tabes dorsalis is a progressive demyelination of the dorsal columns and dorsal roots"
"Tabes dorsalis may present with progressive sensory ataxia due to impaired proprioception"
"Tabes dorsalis presents with a(n) positive Romberg sign"
"Tabes dorsalis presents with absence of deep tendon reflexes (DTRs)"
"Tabes dorsalis is associated with Argyll Robertson pupils"
"Tabes dorsalis is associated with paroxysmal pains"
"What joint complication is associated with tabes dorsalis? Charcot joint (especially knee)"
"Tabes dorsalis may present with urinary overflow incontinence"
"Tabes dorsalis patients present with the \three P's\\": paresthesias"
"What spinal cord level is most commonly affected by tabes dorsalis? Lumbar levels"
"What disease is associated with this spinal cord lesion? Tabes dorsalis (tertiary syphilis)"
"Does amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) damage upper or lower motoneurons? Both :)"
"Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) typically begins at cervical levels of the spinal cord"
"ALS presents with asymmetric flaccid paralysis in the upper limbs"
"ALS presents with asymmetric spastic::spastic or flaccid paralysis in the lower limbs"
"Does ALS present with symmetric or asymmetric weakness? Asymmetric"
"An early sign of ALS is atrophy and weakness of hands"
"What sensory deficits does ALS present with? None :)"
"What bladder/bowel deficits does ALS present with? None :)"
"Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is commonly known as Lou Gehrig disease"
"Most cases of ALS are sporadic and arise in middle-aged adults::age group"
"Familial cases of ALS may be associated with zinc-copper superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mutations, which leads to free radical injury in neurons"
"Whichdrug is used to treat ALS? Riluzole"
"What disease is associated with this spinal cord lesion? Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)"
"Which areas of the spinal cord are spared in a complete occlusion of the anterior spinal artery? Dorsal column and Lissauer's tract"
"Anterior spinal artery occlusion results in signs of bilateral upper motoneuron lesion below the infarct"
"Anterior spinal artery occlusion results in signs of bilateral lower motoneuron lesion at the level of the infarct"
"What sensory deficits are associated with anterior spinal artery occlusion? Loss of pain and temperature::2"
"What bladder deficit is associated with anterior spinal artery occlusion? Spastic bladder"
"Spastic bladder results from lesions above the sacral spinal cord levels"
"Atonic bladder results from lesions at the level of the sacral spinal cord"
"Which region of the spinal cord supplied by the anterior spinal artery lacks strong collateral flow and is most susceptible to watershed infarction? Mid-thoracic (T3-T8)"
"What infarcted artery is associated with this spinal cord lesion? Complete occlusion of anterior spinal artery"
"Subacute combined degeneration is a spinal cord lesion most commonly seen with vitamin B12 deficiency"
"Subacute combined degeneration is characterized by demyelination of spinocerebellar tracts, lateral corticospinal tracts, and dorsal columns"
"What disease is associated with this spinal cord lesion? Subacute combined degeneration (B12 deficiency)"
"Syringomyelia is a cystic cavity within the central canal of the spinal cord (yellow arrows)"
"Syringomyelia most commonly occurs at spinal cord levels C8 - T1"
"Syringomyelia results in damage to the spinothalamic tract 2nd-order neurons crossing in the anterior white commissure"
"Syringomyelia results in bi-lateral loss of pain and temperature sensation in a \cape-like\\" distribution\""
"Syringomyelia typically results in pain/temperature deficits in the upper extremity"
"Syrinx expansion in syringomyelia may lead to damage to the lower motoneurons of the anterior horn"
"Syrinx expansion in syringomyelia (late stage) may cause Horner syndrome"
"The 1st-order neuron of the hypothalamospinal tract arises from the hypothalamus and synapses in the lateral horn of the spinal cord at the level of T1"
"The 2nd-order neuron of the hypothalamospinal tract arises from the lateral horn of T1 and synapses on the superior cervical ganglion"
"The 3rd-order neuron of the hypothalamospinal tract carries sympathetics to the eyelids, pupil, and skin of the face"
"What neural tract is responsible for the sympathetic input of the face? Hypothalamospinal tract"
"Syringomyelia is a spinal cord lesion that arises with trauma and tumors or in association with Chiari I malformation"
"Chiari I malformation is characterized by downward displacement of the cerebellar tonsils through the foramen magnum"
"Chiari I malformation is congenital and is mostly asymptomatic in childhood"
"Chiari I malformation may present as paroxysmal occipital headaches and cerebellar symptoms"
"What disease is associated with this spinal cord lesion? Syringomyelia"
"Friedreich ataxia is a trinucleotide repeat disorder that causes degeneration of the cerebellum and multiple spinal cord tracts"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Friedreich ataxia? Autosomal recessive"
"Friedreich ataxia is caused by a mutated frataxin gene on chromosome 9"
"The frataxin gene is essential for mitochondrial iron regulation"
"Mutation of the frataxin gene in Friedreich ataxia leads to impairment of mitochondrial function"
"Friedreich ataxia presents in childhood::age group with kyphoscoliosis"
"What is commonly the cause of death in Friedreich ataxia? Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy"
"Friedreich ataxia patients often have pes cavus::foot type with hammer toes"
"What eye movement disorder may be present in patients with Friedreich ataxia? Nystagmus"
"Neural tube defects arise due to failure of the neuropores to fuse by the 4th week of pregnancy"
"Neural tube defects are associated with low folate levels prior to conception and during pregnancy"
"Neural tube defects are detected during prenatal care by elevated alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels in the amniotic fluid and maternal blood"
"Elevated acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in amniotic fluid is a helpful confirmatory test for neural tube defects"
"Anencephaly is the absence of the skull and brain, resulting in an open calvarium with an absent forebrain"
"What pathology is associated with disruption of the cranial end of the neural tube? Anencephaly"
"Anencephaly leads to a \frog-like\\" appearance of the fetus due to prominent eyes\""
"Anencephaly is characterized by elevated levels of AFP in utero"
"Anencephaly may result in poly-hydramnios"
"Anencephaly is a neural tube defect associated with maternal type I diabetes"
"Holoprosencephaly is due to failure of the left and right hemispheres to separate"
"The left and right hemispheres usually separate during weeks 3 - 4 of development"
"Holoprosencephaly may be related to mutations in the sonic hedgehog signaling pathway"
"The moderate form of holoprosencephaly presents with cleft lip/palate"
"The severe form of holoprosencephaly results in cyclopia (one eye) and a primitive nasal structure (proboscis)"
"Holoprosencephaly is seen in Patau syndrome and fetal alcohol syndrome"
"Spina bifida is due to failure of the posterior vertebral arch to close"
"What pathology is associated with disruption of the caudal end of the neural tube? Spina bifida"
"Which form of spina bifida is associated with failure of the bony spinal canal to close but with no herniation? Spina bifida occulta"
"Spina bifida occulta is usually seen at lower::upper or lower vertebral levels"
"Is the dura intact in spina bifida occulta? Yes"
"Which form of spina bifida is associated with a tuft of hair or skin dimple at the level of the bone defect? Spina bifida occulta"
"Spina bifida occulta is characterized by normal levels of AFP in utero"
"Which form of spina bifida is associated with herniation of meninges (but no neural tissue) through the bony defect? Meningocele"
"Which form of spina bifida is associated with herniation of meninges and neural tissue through the bony defect? Meningomyelocele"
"Cerebral aqueduct stenosis is a congenital stenosis of the channel that drains CSF from the 3rd ventricle into the 4th ventricle"
"Cerebral aqueduct stenosis leads to accumulation of CSF in the ventricular space"
"Cerebral aqueduct stenosis is the most common cause of hydrocephalus in newborns"
"Cerebral aqueduct stenosis presents with a(n) enlarged head circumference due to dilation of the ventricles"
"Dandy-Walker malformation is a congenital failure of the cerebellar vermis to develop"
"Dandy-Walker malformation presents as a massively dilated 4th ventricle and an absent cerebellar vermis"
"Dandy-Walker malformation is associated with non-communicating hydrocephalus and spina bifida"
"Chiari II malformation is characterized by downward displacement of the cerebellar vermis and tonsils and the medulla through the foramen magnum"
"Chiari II malformation commonly results in aqueductal stenosis, which causes hydrocephalus"
"Chiari II malformation is often associated with lumbosacral meningomyelocele"
"Hematopoiesis occurs via a stepwise maturation of CD-34+ hematopoietic stem cells"
"The CD34+ hematopoietic stem cell may differentiate into a(n) myeloid or lymphoid stem cell"
"Myeloid stem cells may differentiate into erythroblasts, which mature into RBCs"
"Myeloid stem cells may differentiate into myeloblasts, which mature into granulocytes"
"Myeloid stem cells may differentiate into monoblasts, which mature into monocytes"
"Myeloid stem cells may differentiate into megakaryoblasts, which mature into megakaryocytes"
"Lymphoid stem cells may differentiate into B lymphoblasts, which mature into naive B cells and then plasma cells"
"Lymphoid stem cells may differentiate into T lymphoblasts, which mature into naive T cells and then CD4+/CD8+ T cells"
"A normal WBC count is approximately 5 - 10 K/μL"
"A low WBC count (< 5K) is called leukopenia"
"A high WBC count (> 10K) is called leukocytosis"
"Neutropenia refers to a decreased number of circulating neutrophils"
"Neutropenia may result from drug toxicity, especially chemotherapy"
"Neutropenia may result from severe infection (e.g. gram-negative sepsis)"
"In addition to drugs and infection, neutropenia also occurs with aplastic anemia, SLE, and radiation"
"What treatments are used to boost granulocyte production and thus decrease risk of infection in neutropenic patients? GM-CSF or G-CSF::2"
"Lymphopenia refers to a decreased number of circulating lymphocytes"
"Lymphopenia may be caused by immunodeficiency (e.g. HIV, DiGeorge syndrome, SCID)"
"What is the effect of corticosteroids on lymphocyte levels? Decreased (lymphopenia)"
"Lymphopenia may occur due to autoimmune destruction (e.g. SLE)"
"Lymphopenia may occur with whole body radiation"
"Which type of WBC is the most sensitive to radiation? Lymphocytes"
"Eosinopenia refers to a decreased number of circulating eosinophils"
"What is the effect of corticosteroids on eosinophil levels? Decreased (eosinopenia)"
"Neutrophilia refers to an increased number of circulating neutrophils"
"A(n) left shift is an increase in neutrophil precursors, such as band cells and metamyelocytes, in peripheral blood"
"Left shifts are usually seen with neutrophilia in the acute response to bacterial infection or tissue necrosis"
"When a left shift is seen with immature RBCs it is called a(n) leukoerythroblastic reaction"
"Immature neutrophils (e.g. left shift) are characterized by decreased Fc receptors (CD-16)"
"What is the effect of corticosteroids on neutrophil levels? Increased (neutrophilia)"
"Monocytosis (increased monocytes) is seen with chronic inflammatory states and malignancy"
"Lymphocytosis refers to an increased number of circulating lymphocytes"
"Lymphocytosis often occurs in response to viral infections"
"What bacteria causes lymphocytosis via production of lymphocytosis-promoting factor? Bordetella pertussis"
"Infectious mononucleosis most commonly occurs due to a(n) EBV infection"
"Infectious mononucleosis less commonly occurs due to a(n) CMV infection"
"Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is transmitted by saliva (\kissing disease\\")\""
"What demographic is associated with infectious mononucleosis due to EBV infection? Teenagers::age group"
"Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) primarily infects the oropharynx, liver, and B cells"
"EBV infection results in lymphocytosis comprised of reactive CD8+ T cells"
"The CD8+ T-cell response in infectious mononucleosis leads to lymphadenopathy, especially in the posterior cervical::specific nodes"
"The lymphadenopathy seen with infectious mononucleosis is due to T-cell hyperplasia in the lymph node paracortex"
"The CD8+ T-cell response in EBV infection leads to spleno-megaly"
"The splenomegaly seen with infectious mononucleosis is due to T-cell hyperplasia in the periarterial lymphatic sheath (PALS) of the spleen"
"What abnormal cell (seen on blood smear) is associated with infectious mononucleosis? Atypical lymphocytes (reactive CD8+ T-cells)"
"What test is used to screen for infectious mononucleosis? Monospot test"
"The monospot test detects IgM heterophile antibodies that cross-react with horse or sheep RBCs"
"A(n) negative monospot test with symptoms of infectious mononucleosis suggests CMV infection"
"A definitive diagnosis of infectious mononucleosis is made by serologic testing for the EBV viral capsid antigen"
"Infectious mononucleosis is associated with increased risk for splenic rupture"
"Patients with infectious mononucleosis are advised to avoid contact sports for one month"
"Infectious mononucleosis patients develop a(n) rash if exposed to ampicillin"
"Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) remains dormant in B cells, which increases risk for lymphoma, especially if immunodeficiency develops (e.g. HIV)"
"Acute leukemia is defined as a neoplastic proliferation of blasts > 20% in the bone marrow"
"Acute leukemia may present acutely with symptoms of anemia, thrombocytopenia, and/or neutropenia"
"Acute leukemias are typically associated with increased circulating WBCs"
"The blasts seen in acute leukemia are large::size, immature cells, often with \punched out\\" nucleoli\""
"Acute leukemia is subdivided into ALL or AML based on the phenotype of the blasts"
"ALL is a neoplastic accumulation of lymphoblasts (>20%) in the bone marrow"
"Lympho-blasts are characterized by positive nuclear staining for TdT, which is a(n) DNA polymerase"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)? Children::age group"
"Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is associated with Down syndrome; usually arises after the age of 5 years"
"Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is subclassified into B-ALL and T-ALL based on surface markers"
"Which type of ALL (B- or T-ALL) is the most common? B-ALL"
"B-ALL is usually characterized by lymphoblasts (TdT+) that express CD-10, CD-19, and CD-20"
"B-ALL has a(n) excellent response to chemotherapy"
"Treatment of B-ALL requires prophylaxis to the scrotum and CSF"
"B-ALL with t(12;21) has a(n) good prognosis and is more commonly seen in children"
"B-ALL with t(9;22) has a(n) poor prognosis and is more commonly seen in adults::age group"
"T-ALL is characterized by lymphoblasts (TdT+) that express markers ranging from CD-2 to CD-8"
"Do the lymphoblasts in T-ALL express CD10? No"
"T-ALL usually presents in teenagers::age group as a(n) mediastinal mass, thus it is often referred to as acute lymphoblastic lymphoma"
"AML is a neoplastic accumulation of myeloblasts (>20%) in the bone marrow"
"Myeloblasts::-blasts are usually characterized by positive cytoplasmic staining for myeloperoxidase (MPO)"
"Myeloblasts may have crystal aggregates of MPO, which are seen on blood smear as Auer rods"
"Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) most commonly arises in older adults (median onset 65 years)"
"One subtype of AML is acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), which is characterized by t(15;17)"
"The t(15;17) translocation seen in acute promyelocytic leukemia results in disruption of the retinoic acid receptor on chromosome 17"
"The abnormal promyelocytes seen in APML contain numerous primary granules that increase risk for DIC"
"Acute promyelocytic leukemia is treated with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), a vitamin A derivative, as well as arsenic"
"All-trans-retinoic acid binds the altered retinoic acid receptor in APL and causes blasts to mature"
"One subtype of AML is acute monocytic leukemia, which presents with proliferation of monoblasts"
"Do the monoblasts seen in acute monocytic leukemia typically contain myeloperoxidase (MPO)? No"
"In acute monocytic leukemia, blasts characteristically infiltrate the gums"
"One subtype of AML is acute megakaryoblastic leukemia, which presents with proliferation of megakaryoblasts"
"Do the megakaryoblasts seen in acute megakaryoblastic leukemia typically contain myeloperoxidase (MPO)? No"
"Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia is associated with Down syndrome; usually arises before the age of 5"
"AML may arise from pre-existing myelodysplastic syndromes"
"Risk factors for acute myeloid leukemia include prior exposure to alkylating chemotherapy and radiation"
"Myelodysplastic syndromes usually present with increased blasts < 20%"
"Myelodysplastic syndromes rarely may progress to acute myeloid leukemia"
"The brain stem is divisible into three continuous parts: the midbrain, pons, and medulla"
"Which cranial nerves are NOT located in the brain stem? I and II::2"
"Which cranial nerves are located above the pons? I, II, III, and IV::4"
"Which cranial nerves are located in the pons? V, VI, VII, and VIII::4"
"Which cranial nerves are located in the medulla? IX, X, XI*, and XII::4"
"Which cranial nerve nuclei are located medially? III, IV, VI, and XII::4"
"The cranial nerve nuclei that exit medially are motor::motor, sensory, or mixed CNs"
"The cranial nerve nuclei that exit laterally are typically mixed or sensory CNs"
"Which cranial nerve arises from the dorsal aspect of the midbrain? Trochlear nerve (CN IV)"
"ID the structure: Superior colliculus"
"The superior colliculi help coordinate conjugate vertical gaze"
"The superior colliculi directs eye movements to stimuli (noise / movements) or objects of interest"
"ID the structure: Inferior colliculus"
"The inferior colliculi are auditory structures"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Trochlear (CN IV)"
"ID the structure: Pretectal nuclei (light reflex)"
"ID the structure: Pineal gland"
"ID the structure: Cerebral peduncle"
"ID the structure: Mammillary body"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Trochlear (CN IV)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Trigeminal (CN V)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Abducens (CN VI)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Facial (CN VII)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Vestibulocochlear (CN VIII)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Glossopharyngeal (CN IX)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Vagus (CN X)"
"ID the structure: Olive"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Hypoglossal (CN XII)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: Accessory (CN XI)"
"ID the structure: Medullary pyramid"
"Cranial nerve I is the olfactory nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the olfactory nerve (CN I)? Sensory::motor, sensory, or both"
"What is the function of CN I (olfactory)? Smell"
"What is the only cranial nerve that lacks thalamic relay to the cortex? CN I (olfactory)"
"Lesions to CN I (olfactory) result in anosmia"
"Cranial nerve II is the optic nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the optic nerve (CN II)? Sensory::motor, sensory, or both"
"What is the function of CN II (Optic)? Sight"
"Lesions to CN II (optic) result in loss of the sensory limb of the light reflex"
"Lesions to CN II (optic) result in visual field deficits (anopsia)"
"Cranial nerve III is the oculomotor nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the oculomotor nerve (CN III)? Motor::motor, sensory, or both"
"Which cranial nerve innervates the superior rectus muscle? CN III (oculomotor)"
"Which cranial nerve innervates the inferior rectus muscle? CN III (oculomotor)"
"Which cranial nerve innervates the medial rectus muscle? CN III (oculomotor)"
"Which cranial nerve innervates the inferior oblique muscle? CN III (oculomotor)"
"Cranial nerve III (oculomotor) contributes to pupillary constriction::dilation or constriction"
"Cranial nerve III (oculomotor) is responsible for accommodation via innervation of ciliary muscle"
"What cranial nerve innervates the levator palpebrae superioris muscle? CN III (oculomotor)"
"The motor component of CN III is located centrally::centrally or peripherally"
"The parasympathetic component of CN III is located peripherally::centrally or peripherally"
"Which CN III fibers (motor or parasympathetic) are affected first by vascular disease? Motor"
"Which CN III fibers (motor or parasympathetic) are affected first by compression? Parasympathetics"
"Lesions to CN III (oculomotor) result in ptosis and a \down and out\\" gaze\""
"Lesions to CN III (oculomotor) result in loss of the motor limb of the light reflex"
"Lesions to CN III (oculomotor) result in a \blown/dilated::size\\" pupil\""
"Lesions to CN III (oculomotor) result in inability to accommodate (cycloplegia)"
"Cranial nerve IV is the trochlear nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the trochlear nerve (CN IV)? Motor::motor, sensory, or both"
"CN IV (trochlear) contributes to eye movement via innervation of the superior oblique muscle"
"The strongest action of the superior oblique muscle is depression while adducted"
"Lesions to CN IV (trochlear) may present with head tilting away from the lesioned side"
"Lesions to CN IV (trochlear) result in upward movement of the eye, particularly with contralateral gaze"
"Which cranial nerve lesion presents with difficulty walking downstairs? CN IV (trochlear)"
"Cranial nerve VI is the abducens nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the abducens nerve (CN VI)? Motor::motor, sensory, or both"
"CN VI (abducens) contributes to eye movement via innervation of the lateral rectus muscle"
"The lateral rectus muscle is responsible for eye abduction"
"Lesions to CN VI (abducens) result in a medially-directed eye (at rest) that cannot abduct"
"Patients with CN VI lesions may squint to reduce diplopia, producing a \pseudo-ptosis\\"\""
"The superior oblique muscle is isolated by having the patient adduct and depress their eye"
"The inferior rectus muscle is isolated by having the patient abduct and depress their eye"
"The inferior oblique muscle is isolated by having the patient adduct and elevate their eye"
"The superior rectus muscle is isolated by having the patient abduct and elevate their eye"
"Cranial nerve V is the trigeminal nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the trigeminal nerve (CN V)? Both (motor and sensory)::motor, sensory, or both"
"Which branch of the trigeminal nerve provides general sensation to the forehead, scalp, and cornea? Ophthalmic (V1)"
"Which branch of the trigeminal nerve provides general sensation to the palate, nasal cavity, maxillary face, and maxillary teeth? Maxillary (V2)"
"Which branch of the trigeminal nerve provides general sensation to the jaw and mandibular teeth? Mandibular (V3)"
"Which cranial nerve provides somatosensation to the anterior 2/3rds of the tongue? Mandibular branch of trigeminal (V3)::specific"
"Which cranial nerve provides motor innervation to the muscles of mastication? Mandibular branch of trigeminal (V3)::specific"
"The masseter, temporalis, and medial pterygoid muscles are responsible for closing the jaw (muscles of mastication)"
"The lateral pterygoid muscle is responsible for opening the jaw (muscles of mastication)"
"Lesions to CN V3 (trigeminal) result in deviation of the jaw toward the side of the lesion"
"What cranial nerve pathology causes repetitive, unilateral, shooting pain in a distribution of CN V lasting < 1 minute? Trigeminal neuralgia (tic douloureux)"
"Episodes of trigeminal neuralgia (tic douloureux) typically last < 1 minute"
"Cranial nerve VII is the facial nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the facial nerve (CN VII)? Both (motor and sensory)::motor, sensory, or both"
"Which cranial nerve provides taste to the anterior 2/3rds of the tongue? Facial nerve (CN VII) *bonus-which branch"
"Which cranial nerve provides innervation to the muscles of facial expression? Facial nerve (CN VII)"
"CN VII (facial) provides parasympathetic innervation to the lacrimal gland for tear formation *bonus: which branch?"
"CN VII (facial) provides parasympathetic innervation to the submandibular and sublingual glands for salivation bonus: which branch?"
"Which cranial nerve innervates the orbicularis oculi muscle (facilitates eyelid closing)? Facial nerve (CN VII)"
"CN VII (facial) innervates the stapedius muscle, which facilitates auditory volume modulation"
"CN VII (facial) provides some cutaneous innervation to the skin behind the ear"
"Cranial nerve VIII is the vestibulocochlear nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the vestibulocochlear nerve (CN VIII)? Sensory::motor, sensory, or both"
"What are the functions of CN VIII (Vestibulocochlear)? Hearing and balance::2"
"Lesions to CN VIII (vestibulocochlear) may cause sensorineural hearing loss and loss of balance"
"Cranial nerve IX is the glossopharyngeal nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the glossopharyngeal nerve (CN IX)? Both (motor and sensory)::motor, sensory, or both"
"Which cranial nerve provides taste to the posterior 1/3rd of the tongue? Glossopharyngeal nerve (CN IX)"
"Which cranial nerve provides somatosensation to the posterior 1/3rd of the tongue? Glossopharyngeal nerve (CN IX) *where else does this nerve innervate?"
"Which cranial nerve monitors the carotid body and sinus chemo- and baroreceptors? Glossopharyngeal nerve (CN IX)"
"CN IX (glossopharyngeal) provides parasympathetic innervation to the parotid gland for salivation"
"CN IX (glossopharyngeal) provides motor innervation to the stylopharyngeus muscle"
"Lesions to CN IX (glossopharyngeal) result in loss of the sensory limb of the gag reflex"
"Cranial nerve X is the vagus nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the vagus nerve (CN X)? Both (motor and sensory)::motor, sensory, or both"
"Which cranial nerve monitors the aortic body and arch chemo- and baroreceptors? Vagus nerve (CN X)"
"Which cranial nerve provides taste to the supraglottic region? Vagus nerve (CN X)"
"CN X (vagus) provides parasympathetic innervation to the thoracoabdominal viscera"
"Which cranial nerve is most responsible for swallowing and soft palate elevation? Vagus nerve (CN X)"
"Which cranial nerve is most responsible for talking and coughing? Vagus nerve (CN X)"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for keeping the uvula in the midline? Vagus nerve (CN X)"
"Lesions to CN X (vagus) result in loss of the motor limb of the gag reflex"
"Lesions to CN X (vagus) result in deviation of the uvula away from the side of the lesion"
"Cranial nerve XI is the accessory nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the accessory nerve (CN XI)? Motor::motor, sensory, or both"
"CN XI (accessory) provides motor innervation to the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles"
"The left sternocleidomastoid (SCM) muscle contracts to turn the head to the right"
"Lesions to CN XI (accessory) result in weakness turning the head to the contra-lateral side of the lesion"
"Lesions to CN XI (accessory) result in shoulder droop on the ipsi-lateral side of the lesion"
"Cranial nerve XII is the hypoglossal nerve"
"What type of cranial nerve is the hypoglossal nerve (CN XII)? Motor::motor, sensory, or both"
"What is the function of CN XII (Hypoglossal)? Tongue movement"
"Lesions to CN XII (hypoglossal) result in deviation of the tongue toward the side of the lesion"
"Myelodysplastic syndromes are caused by de novo mutations::genetics or environmental exposure (e.g. radiation, benzene, chemotherapy)"
"Myelodysplastic syndromes may be associated with a(n) Pseudo-Pelger-Huet anomaly, which are neutrophils with bilobed nuclei"
"Pseudo-Pelger Huet anomaly is typically seen after chemotherapy"
"Chronic::acute or chronic leukemia is a neoplastic proliferation of mature circulating lymphocytes"
"Chronic leukemia is usually insidious in onset and seen in older adults::age group"
"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is a neoplastic proliferation of naive B cells that co-express CD-5 and CD-20"
"What is the most common leukemia in adults? Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)"
"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is associated with smudge cells and increased lymphocytes on blood smear"
"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia commonly involves lymph nodes, leading to generalized lymphadenopathy; thus called small lymphocytic lymphoma"
"One complication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is hypogammaglobulinemia, which predisposes to infection"
"What is the most common cause of death in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia? Infection (due to hypogammaglobulinemia)"
"One complication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is autoimmune hemolytic::very specific anemia"
"Chronic lymphocytic leukemia may transform into diffuse, large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) via the Richter transformation"
"Transformation of CLL into diffuse, large B-cell lymphoma presents clinically as a(n) enlarging lymph node or spleen"
"Hairy cell leukemia is a neoplastic proliferation of mature B cells characterized by hairy cytoplasmic processes"
"The cells in hairy cell leukemia stain positive for tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)"
"Positive TRAP stain for diagnosis of hairy cell leukemia has been largely replaced with flow cytometry"
"Patients with hairy cell leukemia typically present with massive splenomegaly due to expansion of the red pulp"
"Hairy cell leukemia causes marrow fibrosis, which results in a \dry tap\\" on bone marrow aspiration\""
"Does hairy cell leukemia typically present with lymphadenopathy? No"
"Hairy cell leukemia has an excellent response to cladribine (2-CDA), which is an adenosine deaminase inhibitor"
"In addition to cladribine (2-CDA), hairy cell leukemia may also be treated with pentostatin"
"What demographic is associated with hairy cell leukemia? Adult males::age/gender"
"Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL) is a neoplastic proliferation of mature CD4+ T::specific cells"
"Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma is caused by the HTLV-1 virus"
"The HTLV-1 virus (cause of ATLL) is associated with IV drug users"
"What regions are most commonly affected by adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma? Japan, West Africa, and the Caribbean"
"Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma may present with cutaneous lesions (rash) due to skin infiltration"
"Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma may present with lytic (punched-out) bone lesions and hypercalcemia"
"How can adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma be distinguished from multiple myeloma? ATLL causes a rash"
"Mycosis fungoides is a neoplastic proliferation of mature CD4+ T::name and type cells"
"Mycosis fungoides typically presents in adults with skin patches/plaques"
"The aggregates of neoplastic cells in the epidermis seen with mycosis fungoides are called Pautrier microabscesses"
"Mycosis fungoides may spread to involve the blood, producing Sézary syndrome (T-cell leukemia)"
"Sézary syndrome is characterized by atypical CD4+ cells with cerebriform nuclei seen on blood smear"
"ID Brainstem Level: Rostral midbrain - Presence of colliculi - Presence of cerebral aqueduct - Presence of cerebral peduncles - Presence of CN III"
"ID Structure: Cerebral aqueduct"
"ID Structure: Spinothalamic tract"
"ID Structure: Medial lemniscus"
"ID Structure: Red nucleus"
"ID Structure: Substantia nigra"
"The substantia nigra appears black to dark brown because nigral cells contain melanin pigment"
"ID Tracts: Corticospinal and Corticobulbar tracts::2"
"ID Structure: Medial longitudinal fasciculus"
"ID Nucleus: Nucleus of CN III - Located in rostral midbrain - Anterolateral to cerebral aqueduct - Anterior to nucleus of Edinger-Westphal"
"ID Nucleus: Nucleus of Edinger-Westphal - Located in rostral midbrain - Anterolateral to cerebral aqueduct - Posterior to nucleus of CN III"
"The nucleus of Edinger-Westphal gives rise to pre-ganglionic parasympathetic axons that travel with CN III (oculomotor)"
"The Edinger-Westphal nucleus provides parasympathetic innervation to the pupillary sphincter and ciliary muscles"
"ID Brainstem Level: Caudal midbrain - Presence of colliculi - Presence of cerebral aqueduct - Presence of CN IV"
"ID Nucleus: Trochlear nucleus"
"Which cranial nerve decussates prior to exiting the brainstem? CN IV (Trochlear)"
"ID Structure: Medial longitudinal fasciculus"
"ID Structure: Spinothalamic tract"
"ID Structure: Medial lemniscus"
"Which part of the brainstem contains the nuclei of CN III and IV? Midbrain"
"ID Brainstem Level: Rostral pons - Presence of 4th ventricle - Ventral enlargement - Presence of CN V"
"ID Cranial Nerve: CN V (Trigeminal)"
"ID Structure: Principal sensory nucleus of V"
"Which trigeminal nerve nucleus innervates the muscles of mastication? Trigeminal motor nucleus"
"Which trigeminal nerve nucleus receives tactile and pressure sensations from CN V distributions? Main sensory nucleus"
"ID Structure: Spinal trigeminal nucleus"
"Which trigeminal nerve nucleus receives pain and temperature sensations from CN V distributions? Spinal trigeminal nucleus"
"ID Structure: Spinothalamic tract"
"ID Structure: Medial lemniscus"
"ID Brainstem Level: Caudal pons - Presence of 4th ventricle - Ventral enlargement - Presence of CN VI and VII"
"ID Nucleus: Facial nucleus - Located ventrolateral to the abducens nucleus"
"The facial nerve exits the facial nucleus and loops around the abducens nucleus, forming the internal genu of the facial nerve"
"ID Nucleus: Abducens nucleus - Found near the midline in the floor of the fourth ventricle, just lateral to the MLF"
"ID Nucleus: Spinal trigeminal nucleus"
"The superior olivary nucleus lies immediately ventral to the nucleus of CN VII and receives auditory impulses from both ears by way of the cochlear nuclei"
"Which part of the brainstem contains the nuclei of CN V, VI, VII and VIII? Pons"
"ID Brainstem Level: Open medulla - Presence of 4th ventricle - Inferior olivary nucleus - Presence of CN IX, X and XII"
"ID Cranial Nerve: CN VIII (Vestibulocochlear)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: CN IX (Glossopharyngeal)"
"ID Cranial Nerve: CN X (Vagus)"
"ID Nucleus: Inferior olivary nucleus"
"ID Nucleus: Hypoglossal nucleus - Situated near the midline just beneath the fourth ventricle"
"ID Nucleus: Spinal trigeminal nucleus"
"ID Structure: Medial lemniscus"
"ID Nucleus: Vestibular nucleus"
"ID Nucleus: Cochlear nucleus - Just lateral to the inferior cerebellar peduncle"
"ID Nucleus: Dorsal motor nucleus of X - Adjacent and lateral to the hypoglossal nucleus"
"Which cranial nerve(s) does the dorsal motor nucleus contribute to? CN X (Vagus)"
"The dorsal motor nucleus sends parasympathetic fibers to the heart, lungs, and upper GI tract"
"ID Nucleus: Nucleus solitarius"
"Which cranial nerve(s) does the nucleus solitarius contribute to? CN VII, IX, and X"
"The nucleus solitarius receives visceral sensory information (e.g. taste, baroreceptors, gut distention)"
"ID Nucleus: Nucleus ambiguus"
"Which cranial nerve(s) does the nucleus ambiguus contribute to? CN IX, X, and XI (cranial portion)"
"The nucleus ambiguus supplies motor innervation of the pharynx, larynx, and upper esophagus (e.g. swallowing, palate elevation)"
"ID Brainstem Level: Closed medulla - Absence of 4th ventricle - Decussation of medullary pyramids"
"ID Nucleus: Nucleus gracilis"
"ID Nucleus: Nucleus cuneatus"
"The axons of the nucleus gracilis and cuneatus are termed internal arcuate fibers before decussating"
"ID Nucleus: Spinal trigeminal nucleus"
"ID Tract: Spinocerebellar tract"
"Which part of the brainstem contains the nuclei of CN IX, X and XII? Medulla"
"Where is the nucleus of CN XI (accessory nucleus) located? Spinal cord"
"Do intramedullary lesions affect fibers of the spinal accessory nerve? No"
"What structure in the medulla separates CN IX and X from CN XII? Olive"
"The rootlets of CN IX and X exit between the olive and inferior cerebellar peduncle"
"The rootlets of CN XII exit between the olive and medullary pyramid"
"The medial lemniscus is initially positioned medially::medially or laterally in the caudal medulla"
"The medial lemniscus is positioned more laterally::medially or laterally as it ascends through the midbrain"
"Lesions to the medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF) cause internuclear ophthalmoplegia"
"The corticospinal tract is located medially::medially or laterally throughout the brainstem"
"The spinothalamic tract is accompanied by the hypothalamospinal tract throughout the brain stem"
"Horner syndrome presents with ptosis due to denervation of the superior tarsal muscle"
"Horner syndrome is associated with lesions of the spinal cord above T1"
"Horner syndrome is a triad of ptosis, miosis, and anhidrosis due to sympathetic denervation of the face"
"The spinal trigeminal nucleus receives information about pain and temperature from the ipsilateral face"
"The mesencephalic nucleus of V receives proprioceptive input from the face"
"Which trigeminal nerve nuclei forms the sensory limb of the jaw jerk reflex? Mesencephalic nucleus"
"The 2nd-order neurons of trigeminal nerve nuclei synapse in the ventral posteromedial (VPM) nucleus of the thalamus"
"Lesions to CN V result in loss of facial sensations on the ipsi-lateral side"
"Corticobulbar tracts serve as a source of UMN innervation of LMNs in cranial nerve nuclei"
"Corticobulbar fibers arise in the primary motor cortex"
"The corticobulbar innervation of cranial nerve lower motoneurons is predominantly bi-lateral"
"Which cranial nerve has some LMNs that receive only contralateral corticobulbar innervation? Facial nerve (CN VII)"
"The corticobulbar innervation of facial motoneurons to muscles of the upper face is bi-lateral"
"The corticobulbar innervation of facial motoneurons to muscles of the lower face is contra-lateral"
"Upper motor neuron lesions of the facial nerve result in contra-lateral paralysis of the lower muscles of facial expression"
"Lower motor neuron lesions of the facial nerve result in ipsi-lateral paralysis of the upper and lower muscles of facial expression"
"Lesions to LMNs of CN VII (facial) may result in hyperacusis::auditory complication"
"Lesions to CN VII (facial) may result in loss of taste sensation to the anterior tongue"
"Facial nerve palsy is a clinical syndrome of CN VII upper or lower motoneuron lesion"
"When facial nerve palsy is idiopathic it is called Bell palsy"
"Ramsay Hunt syndrome is a combination of herpes zoster (shingles) and facial nerve palsy"
"Treatment for facial nerve palsy may include corticosteroids and acyclovir"
"ID Structure: Fasciculus cuneatus"
"ID Structure: Fasciculus gracilis"
"ID Tract: Lateral corticospinal tract"
"ID Tract: Spinothalamic tract"
"ID Structure: Anterior (ventral) horn"
"ID Structure: Anterior white commissure"
"ID Tract: Lissauer's tract"
"ID Tract: Spinocerebellar tract"
"The external ear consists of the pinna and the external auditory meatus (auditory canal)"
"The function of the external ear is to transfer sound waves via vibration of the eardrum"
"The external ear is separated from the middle ear by the tympanic membrane"
"The middle ear consists of the auditory ossicles (malleus, incus, stapes)"
"The middle ear is a(n) air::air or fluid-filled space"
"What are the three auditory ossicles of the middle ear? Malleus, incus, & stapes::3"
"The stapes inserts into the oval window, a membrane between the middle and inner ear"
"The auditory ossicles of the middle ear conduct and amplify sound from the eardrum to the inner ear"
"The inner ear consists of a bony and membranous labyrinth"
"The bony labyrinth of the inner ear consists of the semicircular canals, vestibule, and cochlea"
"The membranous labyrinth of the inner ear consists of a series of ducts (scala vestibuli, scala tympani, scala media)"
"The inner ear is a(n) fluid::air or fluid-filled space"
"The fluid in the scala vestibuli and scala tympani is called perilymph (inner ear)"
"Peri-lymph (inner ear) is characterized by high Na+ and low K+ concentration"
"The fluid in the scala media is called endolymph (inner ear)"
"Endo-lymph (inner ear) is characterized by low Na+ and high K+ concentration"
"The cochlea is a spiral-shaped structure in the inner ear that contains the organ of Corti"
"The organ of Corti lies on the basilar membrane of the cochlea and is bathed in the endolymph contained in the scala media"
"The organ of Corti contains two types of receptor cells: inner and outer hair cells"
"The inner and outer hair cells of the organ of Corti have sterocilia, which make contact with the tectorial membrane"
"Bending of cilia in response to basilar membrane vibration produces a change in K+ conductance of the hair cell"
"High frequencies are best heard at the base of the cochlea (basilar membrane)"
"The base of the cochlea (basilar membrane) is thin and rigid"
"Low frequencies are best heard at the apex of the basilar membrane (near the helicotrema)"
"The apex of the basilar membrane is wide and flexible"
"The processing of different frequencies based on spatial arrangement is referred to as tonotopy"
"The endolymph of the inner ear is produced by the stria vascularis"
"If there is unilateral conductive hearing loss, the Weber test localizes to the affected ear"
"If there is unilateral sensorineural hearing loss, the Weber test localizes to the normal ear"
"If there is unilateral conductive hearing loss, the Rinne test demonstrates bone > air conduction"
"If there is unilateral sensorineural hearing loss, the Rinne test demonstrates air > bone conduction"
"Causes of conductive hearing loss include obstruction, otosclerosis, and otitis media"
"Causes of sensorineural hearing loss include damage to the cochlea, CN VIII, or central auditory connections"
"Presbycusis is defined as age-related hearing loss"
"Presbycusis is a form of sensorineural hearing loss, often at higher frequencies"
"Presbycusis occurs due to destruction of hair cells at the cochlear base"
"Noise-induced hearing loss is due to damage to stereociliated cells in the organ of Corti"
"Which frequencies (high or low) are typically lost first with noise-induced hearing loss? High frequencies"
"Sudden extremely loud noises can produce hearing loss due to tympanic membrane rupture (noise-induced hearing loss)"
"The spiral ganglion contains cell bodies whose peripheral axons innervate hair cells of the organ of Corti"
"The central axons from the spiral ganglion form the cochlear part of CN VIII"
"All the axons in the cochlear part of CN VIII enter the pontomedullary junction and synapse in the ventral and dorsal cochlear nuclei"
"Axons of cells in the cochlear nuclei bi-laterally innervate the superior olivary nuclei in the pons"
"The auditory input from the superior olivary nucleus travels via the lateral lemniscus to the inferior colliculus (midbrain)"
"The inferior colliculus sends auditory information to the medial geniculate body of the thalamus"
"The auditory information from the medial geniculate body projects to the primary auditory cortex of the superior temporal gyrus"
"Lesions of the cochlear part of CN VIII or cochlear nuclei result in profound uni::uni- or bilateral-lateral sensorineural hearing loss"
"Lesions at or above superior olivary nucleus result in diminished hearing loss bi::uni- or bilateral-laterally and decreased ability to localize sound"
"The semicircular canals of the vestibular system detect angular acceleration of the head *bonus-name of wall"
"The semicircular canals of the inner ear are filled with endo-lymph"
"At the end of each semicircular canal (ampulla) are hair cells, which act as receptors"
"The cilia on the hair cells of the semicircular canal are embedded in a gelatinous structure called the cupula"
"The hair cells of the semicircular canals have a single long cilium, called a(n) kinocilium, and several smaller stereocilia"
"If the stereocilia are bent toward the kinocilium, the hair cell de-polarizes"
"If the stereocilia are bent away from the kinocilium, the hair cell hyper-polarizes"
"The utricle and saccule (otolith organs) of the vestibular system detect linear acceleration of the head"
"Primary vestibular fibers synapse with secondary fibers in the vestibular nuclei"
"Secondary vestibular fibers, arising from the vestibular nuclei, join the medial longitudinal fasciculus and supply the motor nuclei of CN III, IV, and VI (vestibulo-ocular reflex)"
"A lesion of the vestibular nuclei or nerve produces a vestibular-evoked nystagmus (vestibulo-ocular reflex)"
"Vestibular-evoked nystagmus begins with a slow deviation toward::toward or away from the lesion"
"Vestibular-evoked nystagmus is characterized by a fast corrective phase away from::toward or away from the lesion"
"Cold water irrigation of the ear produces nystagmus to the opposite side (Caloric test)"
"Warm water irrigation of the ear produces nystagmus to the same side (Caloric test)"
"The medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF) is a pair of tracts that allows for crosstalk between CN VI and CN III nuclei"
"One control center for horizontal gaze is located in the frontal eye field, which is responsible for contra-lateral gaze"
"One control center for horizontal gaze is located in the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF), which is responsible for ipsi-lateral gaze"
"The abducens nucleus is coexistent with the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF), the center for ipsilateral horizontal gaze"
"The frontal eye fields send axons that decussate and synapse on neurons of the contralateral paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF)"
"The paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF) sends axons to synapse with cell bodies of the ipsilateral abducens nucleus"
"The abducens nucleus sends axons that course within the contralateral MLF to reach the oculomotor nucleus"
"Lesions to the paramedian pontine reticular formation result in eyes that look away from the side of the lesion"
"Lesions to the frontal eye fields result in eyes that look towards the side of the lesion"
"Lesions to the abducens nucleus may result in complete, ipsilateral facial paralysis, in addition to symptoms of abducens/PPRF lesion"
"The medial longitudinal fasciculus is heavily::heavily or lightly myelinated"
"Are the MLF lesions seen with multiple sclerosis classically uni- or bilateral? Bilateral"
"What neurological pathology commonly causes medial longitudinal fasciculus lesions? Multiple sclerosis"
"The directional term of internuclear ophthalmoplegia (e.g. right or left) refers to which eye is paralyzed"
"Internuclear ophthalmoplegia results in inability to adduct the ipsi-lateral eye"
"Internuclear ophthalmoplegia results in nystagmus of the contra-lateral eye"
"Internuclear ophthalmoplegia has normal convergence, which is a distinguishing feature from a CN III lesion"
"What arteries supply the medial medulla? Anterior spinal artery or vertebral artery::2"
"What artery supplies the lateral medulla? Posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA)"
"What artery supplies the medial pons? Basilar artery (via paramedian pontine branches)"
"What artery supplies the lateral pons? Anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA)"
"What artery supplies the medial and lateral midbrain? Posterior cerebral artery"
"Rules of 4: There are four midline structures that start with \M\\" 1. Motor pathway (corticospinal tract) 2. Medial lemniscus 3. Medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF) 4. Motor nuclei/nerves (CN III"
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the corticospinal tract result in contra-lateral weakness of the arm and leg"
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the medial lemniscus result in contra-lateral loss of vibration sense and proprioception in the arm and leg"
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the MLF result in ipsi-lateral internuclear ophthalmoplegia"
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the motor nuclei or nerves typically result in ipsi-lateral loss of the affected nerve"
"Rules of 4: There are four lateral structures that start with \S\\" 1. Spinocerebellar pathway 2. Spinothalamic tract 3. Spinal trigeminal nucleus 4. Sympathetic (hypothalamospinal) pathway\""
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the spinocerebellar pathway result in ipsi-lateral ataxia of the arm and leg"
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the spinothalamic tract result in contra-lateral alteration of pain and temperature in the arm and leg"
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the spinal trigeminal nucleus result in ipsi-lateral alteration of pain and temperature on the face in the distribution of CN V"
"Rules of 4: Lesions in the brain stem that affect the sympathetic pathway result in ipsi-lateral Horner's syndrome"
"Medial medullary syndrome is caused by occlusion of paramedian branches of the anterior spinal artery and/or vertebral arteries"
"What syndrome is associated with lesion of the following areas? Medial medullary syndrome (Inferior alternating hemiplegia) 1. Corticospinal tract 2. Medial lemniscus 3. Hypoglossal nerve (CN XII)"
"Lateral medullary (Wallenberg) syndrome is caused by: - occlusion of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery - most commonly due to traumatic vascular dissection / occlusion of the distal vertebral artery"
"What syndrome is associated with lesion of the following areas? Lateral medullary (Wallenberg) syndrome 1. Spinothalamic tract 2. Spinal trigeminal nucleus 3. Hypothalamospinal tract 4. Nucleus ambiguus (CN IX, X) 5. Vestibular nucleus (CN VIII) 6. Inferior cerebellar peduncle"
"Lesion to which artery affects the nucleus ambiguus? Posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA)"
"Medial pontine (middle alternating hemiplegia) syndrome is caused by occlusion of paramedian branches of the basilar artery"
"What syndrome is associated with lesion of the following areas? Medial pontine (middle alternating hemiplegia) syndrome 1. Corticospinal tract 2. Medial lemniscus 3. Abducens nerve (CN VI)"
"Lateral pontine syndrome is caused by occlusion of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery"
"What syndrome is associated with lesion of the following areas? Lateral pontine syndrome (Marie-Foix) 1. Spinothalamic tract 2. Spinal trigeminal nucleus 3. Hypothalamospinal tract 4. Facial nucleus (CN VII) 5. Cochlear nucleus (CN VIII) 6. Vestibular nucleus (CN VIII) 7. Middle and inferior cerebellar peduncles 8. Labyrinthine artery"
"Lesion to which artery affects the facial nucleus? Anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA)"
"Vestibular schwannoma (acoustic neuroma) is a slow-growing tumor that typically arises from Schwann cells in the vestibular nerve"
"Vestibular schwannomas are typically located on CN VIII in the internal acoustic meatus"
"Vestibular schwannomas may extend outside the internal acoustic meatus to the cerebellopontine angle"
"Cerebellopontine angle syndrome lacks signs of long tract lesions, thus indicating the lesion is outside the brainstem"
"Cerebellopontine angle syndrome may initially present with vertigo, vomiting, and progressive hearing loss on the ipsi-lateral side (CN VIII involvement)"
"Cerebellopontine angle syndrome may later involve compression of CN V and VII as the vestibular schwannoma grows and expands"
"Medial midbrain (Weber) syndrome is caused by occlusion of the paramedian branches of the posterior cerebral artery"
"What syndrome is associated with lesion of the following areas? Medial midbrain (Weber) syndrome 1. Corticospinal tract 2. Corticobulbar tract 3. Fibers of CN III"
"Parinaud syndrome is characterized by paralysis of conjugate vertical gaze due to a lesion in the dorsal midbrain (e.g. stroke, hydrocephalus, pinealoma)"
"Parinaud syndrome often results from a tumor of the pineal gland"
"The raphe nucleus of the reticular formation is responsible for synthesis of serotonin"
"The locus coeruleus of the reticular formation is located in the posterior rostral pons and is responsible for synthesis of norepinephrine"
"The periaqueductal (central) gray of the reticular formation is a collection of nuclei surrounding the cerebral aqueduct in the midbrain"
"The vestibular nuclei sends axons to ipsilateral antigravity muscles via the lateral vestibulospinal tract to maintain upright and balanced posture"
"Which part of the brain \fine-tunes\\" movement and aids in coordination/balance? Cerebellum\""
"The cerebellum consists of a midline vermis and two lateral hemispheres on each side"
"The flocculonodular lobe of the cerebellum spans through the vermis and lateral hemispheres"
"The vermis of the cerebellum controls the truncal and proximal musculature of limbs"
"The intermediate hemisphere of the cerebellum controls distal musculature"
"The lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum is involved in motor planning"
"The flocculonodular lobe of the cerebellum is involved in control of balance and eye movements"
"The cerebellum receives ipsi-lateral proprioceptive information from the spinal cord via the inferior cerebellar peduncle"
"The cerebellum receives contra-lateral input from the cerebral cortex via the middle cerebellar peduncle"
"The outer layer of the cerebellar cortex is the molecular layer"
"The molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex contains basket and stellate cells"
"What is the neurotransmitter used by stellate and basket cells (cerebellar cortex)? GABA (Inhibitory)"
"The molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex contains parallel fibers, which are the axons of granule cells"
"The middle layer of the cerebellar cortex is the Purkinje layer"
"All of the inputs to the cerebellum are directed towards influencing the firing of Purkinje cells"
"The only axons that leave the cerebellar cortex are those of Purkinje cells"
"What is the neurotransmitter used by Purkinje cells (cerebellar cortex)? GABA (Inhibitory)"
"The inner layer of the cerebellar cortex is the granule cell layer"
"The granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex contains Golgi cells and granule cells"
"The granule cell is the only excitatory neuron with its cell body in the cerebellar cortex"
"What is the neurotransmitter used by Golgi cells (cerebellar cortex)? GABA (Inhibitory)"
"What is the neurotransmitter used by granule cells (cerebellar cortex)? Glutamate (Excitatory)"
"What is the target of Golgi cells (cerebellar cortex)? Granule cells"
"What is the target of granule, stellate, and basket cells (cerebellar cortex)? Purkinje cells"
"What is the target of Purkinje cells (cerebellar cortex)? Deep cerebellar nuclei"
"Two kinds of excitatory input enter the cerebellum in the form of climbing fibers and mossy fibers"
"Climbing fibers that enter the cerebellum originate from the inferior olivary nuclei of the contralateral medulla"
"The climbing fibers that enter the cerebellum target excitatory terminals on Purkinje cells"
"Mossy fibers that enter the cerebellum are from numerous sources (e.g. pontine nuclei, spinal cord, vestibular nuclei)"
"The mossy fibers that enter the cerebellum target excitatory terminals on granule cells"
"The deep cerebellar nuclei from lateral to medial are dentate, emboliform, globose, and fastigial"
"Cerebellar circuitry begins with Purkinje cells that receive excitatory input from climbing fibers and parallel fibers (of granule cells)"
"Purkinje cells in the flocculonodular lobe of the cerebellum project to the fastigial nucleus which projects to the lateral vestibular nucleus"
"Purkinje cells in the vermis of the cerebellum project to the fastigial nuclei"
"Purkinje cells in the intermediate hemisphere of the cerebellum project to the globose and emboliform nuclei"
"Purkinje cells in the lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum project to the dentate nucleus"
"The output of the Purkinje cells is always inhibitory::excitatory or inhibitory"
"The dentate nucleus sends axons that decussate in the superior cerebellar peduncle and then synapse in the contralateral ventral lateral (VL) nucleus of the thalamus"
"Neurons of the ventral lateral nucleus (thalamus) synapse with UMNs in the motor cortex (precentral gyrus)"
"The UMNs of the motor cortex that receive input from the VL nucleus (thalamus) send descending axons via the contralateral corticospinal tract"
"The emboliform and globose nuclei send axons that decussate in the superior cerebellar peduncle and then synapse in the red nucleus of the midbrain"
"Neurons of the red nucleus (midbrain) that receive input from the emboliform and globose nuclei send descending axons via the contralateral rubrospinal tract"
"The major outflow from the cerebellum travels in the superior cerebellar peduncle"
"The hallmark of cerebellar dysfunction is intention tremor without paralysis or paresis"
"Which movement disorder presents as a slow, zigzag motion when pointing/extending toward a target? Intention tremor"
"Lesions that involve the lateral::medial or lateral cerebellum produce a number of dysfunctions, mostly involving the ipsi-lateral extremities (distal musculature)"
"Patients with lateral cerebellar lesions have propensity to fall toward the lesioned side"
"One sign of lateral cerebellar lesion is dysmetria, which is the inability to stop a movement at the proper place (e.g. finger to nose)"
"One sign of lateral cerebellar lesion is dysdiadochokinesia, which is the reduced ability to perform alternating movements quickly (e.g. pronation and supination of forearm)"
"One sign of cerebellar lesions is scanning dysarthria, in which patients divide words into syllables"
"One sign of lateral cerebellar lesion is gaze dysfunction when the eyes try to fix on a point"
"Lesions that involve the medial cerebellum generally result in bi-lateral motor deficits affecting truncal and proximal musculature"
"Lesions of the anterior cerebellar vermis are usually the result of degeneration from alcohol abuse and present with gait::specific ataxia"
"Lesions of the posterior cerebellar vermis usually result from medulloblastomas or ependymomas and present with truncal ataxia"
"Lesions of the medial::medial or lateral cerebellum may result in nystagmus and head tilting"
"Do patients with cerebellar lesions sway with their eyes open or closed? Both :)"
"Do patients with dorsal column lesions sway with their eyes open or closed? Closed (Romberg sign)"
"Which part of the brain initiates and provides gross control over skeletal muscle movement? Basal ganglia"
"One component of the basal ganglia is the striatum, which consists of the putamen::motor and caudate::cognitive"
"One component of the basal ganglia is the lentiform nucleus, which consists of the putamen and globus pallidus"
"The globus pallidus is divided into a(n) internal and external segment"
"One component of the basal ganglia is the substantia nigra, which is located in the rostral midbrain"
"One component of the basal ganglia is the subthalamic nucleus, which is located in the diencephalon"
"The direct basal ganglia pathway facilitates movement"
"In both the direct and indirect basal ganglia pathways, neurons from the cerebral cortex lead to excitation of neurons of the striatum"
"What neurotransmitter is released by the motor cortex in the basal ganglia pathway (direct and indirect)? Glutamate (excitatory)"
"In the direct basal ganglia pathway, the neurons of the striatum lead to inhibition of neurons of the globus pallidus internus"
"What neurotransmitters are released by the striatum in the direct basal ganglia pathway? GABA and Substance P (Inhibitory)::2"
"What neurotransmitter is released by the globus pallidus internus in the basal ganglia pathway (direct and indirect)? GABA (Inhibitory)"
"Inhibition of the globus pallidus internus results in excitation of the ipsilateral ventral lateral (VL) nucleus of the thalamus (basal ganglia pathway)"
"The indirect basal ganglia pathway inhibits movement"
"In the indirect basal ganglia pathway, the neurons of the striatum lead to inhibition of neurons of the globus pallidus externus"
"What neurotransmitters are released by the striatum in the indirect basal ganglia pathway? GABA and Enkephalin (Inhibitory)::2"
"In the indirect basal ganglia pathway, inhibition of the globus pallidus externus leads to excitation of neurons of the subthalamic nucleus"
"What neurotransmitter is released upon stimulation of the globus pallidus externus (basal ganglia pathway)? GABA (Inhibitory)"
"In the indirect basal ganglia pathway, the neurons of the subthalamic nucleus lead to excitation of neurons of the globus pallidus internus"
"What neurotransmitter is released by the subthalamic nucleus in the indirect basal ganglia pathway? Glutamate (Excitatory)"
"Excitation of the globus pallidus internus results in inhibition of the ipsilateral ventral lateral (VL) nucleus of the thalamus (basal ganglia pathway)"
"Which part of the basal ganglia sends dopaminergic neurons to the striatum to alter activity of both basal ganglia pathways? Substantia nigra"
"Dopamine excites the direct basal ganglia pathway through D1 receptors"
"Dopamine inhibits the indirect basal ganglia pathway through D2 receptors"
"Cholinergic neurons within the striatum stimulate the indirect basal ganglia pathway"
"Which movement disorder presents as sudden, wild flailing of 1 arm +/- the leg on the same side? Hemiballismus"
"Hemiballismus results from a lesion to the contra-lateral subthalamic nucleus (e.g. lacunar stroke)"
"Hemiballismus is usually seen in patients with hypertension, which increases risk for a lacunar stroke"
"ID Structure: Head of caudate"
"ID Structure: Putamen"
"ID Structure: Globus pallidus"
"ID Structure: Thalamus"
"ID letter \a\\": Thalamus\""
"ID letter \b\\": Head of caudate\""
"ID letter \c\\": Genu of internal capsule\""
"ID letter \g\\": Putamen\""
"ID Structure: Sclera - Outer layer, posterior 4/5th of the eye"
"ID Structure: Choroid - Middle layer, posterior 4/5th of the eye - Vascular layer"
"ID Structure: Retina - Inner layer, posterior 4/5th of the eye - Neural layer"
"ID Structure: Fovea - Small depression in the macula, which is the central point of the retina"
"ID Structure: Cornea - Outer layer, anterior 1/5th of the eye"
"ID Structure: Iris - Middle layer, anterior 1/5th of the eye"
"ID Structure: Lens"
"ID Chamber: Posterior chamber"
"ID Chamber: Anterior chamber"
"ID Chamber: Vitreous chamber"
"ID Structure: Ciliary body"
"ID Structure: Zonular fibers (suspensory ligaments)"
"ID Structure: Optic disc"
"Which part of the posterior eye is not covered by the retina (blind spot)? Optic disc"
"Visual acuity is highest at a central point of the retina, called the macula"
"Light is focused in a depression within the macula, called the fovea"
"The lens is suspended from the ciliary body by zonular fibers"
"What two types of photoreceptors are used for vision? rods and cones"
"Which photoreceptor is used for night vision? Rods"
"Which photoreceptor is sensitive to low-intensity light? Rods"
"Rods are characterized by low::high/low acuity and high::high/low sensitivity"
"Cones are characterized by high::high/low acuity and low::high/low sensitivity"
"Which photoreceptor is used for day and color vision? Cones"
"Which photoreceptor is sensitive to high-intensity light? Cones"
"Which type of photoreceptor is found in the fovea? Cones"
"Which layer of the retina absorbs stray light and prevents scatter of light? Pigment epithelial layer"
"The nuclei of photoreceptors are contained in the outer nuclear layer of the retina"
"Output from photoreceptors (rods, cones) is transmitted to bipolar cells, which reside in the inner nuclear layer of the retina"
"The bipolar cells of the retina synapse with ganglion cells, which are the output cells of the retina"
"Axons of the retinal ganglion cells leave the eye via the optic nerve"
"When light strikes the retina, 11-cis retinal is converted to all-trans retinal"
"Regeneration of 11-cis retinal (from all-trans retinal) requires vitamin A"
"Aqueous humor is produced by nonpigmented epithelium on the ciliary body"
"Aqueous humor fills the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye"
"Aqueous humor from the posterior::anterior or posterior chamber enters the anterior::anterior or posterior chamber"
"From the anterior chamber, most aqueous humor (90%) drains through the trabecular meshwork into the canal of Schlemm (scleral venous sinus)"
"From the anterior chamber, some aqueous humor (10%) drains into the uvea and sclera"
"Trabecular outflow of aqueous humor is increased with M3 agonists"
"Uveoscleral outflow of aqueous humor is increased with prostaglandin agonists"
"Aqueous humor production is decreased with β antagonists::agonists or antagonists"
"Aqueous humor production is decreased with α2 agonists::agonists or antagonists"
"Aqueous humor production is decreased by carbonic anhydrase::enzyme inhibitors"
"Vitreous humor fills the vitreous chamber of the eye"
"What is the predominant autonomic receptor on the pupillary sphincter muscle? M3"
"What is the predominant autonomic receptor on the pupillary dilator muscle? α1"
"What is the predominant autonomic receptor on the ciliary muscle? M3"
"Is the pupillary sphincter muscle under parasympathetic or sympathetic control? Parasympathetic"
"Light reflex: Light in either retina sends a signal via CN II to the pretectal nuclei"
"Light reflex: Cells in the pretectal area send axons to the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, bilaterally"
"Light reflex: The Edinger-Westphal nuclei send pre-ganglionic parasympathetic neurons to the ciliary ganglia via CN III"
"Light reflex: The ciliary ganglia send post-ganglionic parasympathetic neurons to the pupillary constrictor muscle via short ciliary nerves"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the afferent limb of the pupillary light reflex? CN II (Optic)"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the efferent limb of the pupillary light reflex? CN III (Oculomotor)"
"Is the ciliary muscle under parasympathetic or sympathetic control? Parasympathetic"
"Accommodation (near response) occurs via contraction of the ciliary muscle, which relaxes the suspensory ligaments and allows the lens to become more round"
"The accommodation reflex is accompanied by convergence and miosis"
"Is the pupillary dilator muscle under parasympathetic or sympathetic control? Sympathetic"
"The first neuron involved in mydriasis projects from the hypothalamus to the ciliospinal center of Budge (C8 - T2)"
"Axons from the ciliospinal center of Budge exit at T1 and synapse on the superior cervical ganglion"
"The sympathetic fibers of the superior cervical ganglion travel in the internal carotid artery and cavernous sinus en route to the orbit"
"Sympathetic fibers from the superior cervical ganglion innervate the pupillary dilator muscle via long ciliary nerves"
"Argyll-Robertson pupil is a pupil that has a functional accommodation reflex, but no light reflex"
"Marcus Gunn pupil is characterized by decreased bilateral pupillary constriction when light is shone in the affected eye relative to the unaffected eye"
"Marcus Gunn pupil is also referred to as relevant afferent pupillary defect (RAPD)"
"Marcus Gunn pupil occurs due to optic nerve damage or severe retinal injury"
"Marcus Gunn pupil is tested with the \swinging flashlight\\" test\""
"Adie pupil is a unilaterally dilated pupil that reacts sluggishly to light, but better to accommodation"
"Adie pupil is more commonly seen in women::gender and is often associated with loss of the knee jerk reflex"
"Visual fields are subdivided into two hemifields: nasal and temporal"
"Visual images perceived on the nasal hemifield will stimulate cells on the temporal half of the ipsilateral retina (and vice versa)"
"At the optic chiasm, 60% of the optic fibers from the nasal half of each retina cross and project into the contralateral optic tracts"
"Most fibers in the optic tract project to the lateral geniculate body of the thalamus"
"The axons from the lateral geniculate body that project to the primary visual (striate) cortex are known as optic radiations"
"The primary visual (striate) cortex is divided into cuneus::superior and lingual::inferior gyri via the calcarine fissure"
"Visual information from the inferior retina travels in Meyer's loop (temporal lobe) before synapsing in the lingual gyrus"
"Visual information from the superior retina travels in the dorsal optic radiation (parietal lobe) before synapsing in the cuneus gyrus"
"What is the orientation of an image when it hits the primary visual cortex? Upside down with left-right reversed"
"Lesions to the optic nerve result in mon-ocular and ipsi-lateral deficits in vision"
"What visual deficit results from complete lesion of the optic nerve (e.g. central retinal artery occlusion, central retinal vein occlusion)? Ipsilateral anopia"
"What visual deficit results from lesion of the optic nerve just outside the optic chiasm (e.g. medially expanding ICA aneurysm)? Ipsilateral nasal hemianopia"
"What visual deficit results from lesion of the optic chiasm (e.g. pituitary adenoma, craniopharyngioma)? Bitemporal hemianopia"
"Lesion to areas after the optic chiasm result in bin-ocular and homonymous contra-lateral deficits in vision"
"What visual deficit results from lesion of the optic tract or lateral geniculate body? Contralateral homonymous hemianopia"
"What visual deficit results from a lesion of Meyer's loop (e.g. temporal lesion, MCA occlusion)? Contralateral homonymous superior quadrantanopia (\pie in the sky\\")\""
"What visual deficit results from lesion of Baum's Loop (dorsal optic radiation) (e.g. parietal lesion, MCA occlusion)? Contralateral homonymous inferior quadrantanopia (\Pie on the floor\\")\""
"What visual deficit results from a lesion of primary visual cortex (e.g. PCA occlusion)? Contralateral homonymous hemianopia with macular sparing"
"The macula is spared during posterior cerebral artery infarct due to collateral circulation with the middle cerebral artery"
"What visual deficit results from lesion of the macula? Central scotoma"
"Patients with optic tract lesions will have a slightly suppressed pupillary light reflex"
"Myeloproliferative disorders are neoplastic proliferations of mature cells of myeloid lineage"
"Myeloproliferative disorders most commonly present in late adulthood (50 - 60 years old)::age group"
"Myeloproliferative disorders may cause hyperuricemia and gout due to high turnover of cells"
"Myeloproliferative disorders may progress to marrow fibrosis or transform to acute leukemia"
"Chronic myeloproliferative disorders (except CML) are associated with V617F JAK2 mutations"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia is a neoplastic proliferation of mature myeloid cells, especially granulocytes and their precursors (basophil, neutrophil, eosinophils)"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia is defined by the t(9;22) translocation"
"The t(9;22) translocation generates a(n) BCR-ABL fusion protein with increased tyrosine kinase activity"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia* responds well to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as imatinib"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia commonly results in spleno-megaly"
"An enlarging spleen in CML suggests progression to accelerated disease (\blast crisis\\")\""
"CML may transform to acute myeloid leukemia (2/3rd of cases)"
"CML may transform to acute lymphoid leukemia (1/3rd of transformations)"
"CML is distinguished from a leukemoid reaction (benign neutrophilia) by presence of increased basophils"
"CML is distinguished from a leukemoid reaction (benign neutrophilia) by a(n) negative leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) stain"
"Polycythemia vera is a neoplastic proliferation of mature myeloid cells, especially red blood cells"
"Polycythemia vera is a form of primary::primary or secondary polycythemia"
"Polycythemia vera may present with symptoms of hyperviscosity of the blood (e.g. blurry vision, headache)"
"Polycythemia vera increases risk of venous and arterial thrombosis"
"Polycythemia vera rarely may cause erythromelalgia, which is characterized by severe, burning pain and red-blood discoloration"
"Polycythemia vera classically presents with intense itching, especially after a hot shower"
"The 1st line treatment for polycythemia vera is phlebotomy; second-line therapy is hydroxyurea"
"Patients with polycythemia vera may take low-dose aspirin to decrease risk of thrombosis"
"Polycythemia vera is characterized by increased plasma volume"
"Polycythemia vera is characterized by significantly increased RBC mass"
"Polycythemia vera is characterized by decreased EPO"
"Relative polycythemia is characterized by decreased plasma volume"
"Relative polycythemia is characterized by normal RBC mass"
"Relative polycythemia is characterized by normal EPO"
"Which form of polycythemia is associated with dehydration and burns? Relative polycythemia (relative erythrocytosis / hemoconcentration)"
"Appropriate absolute polycythemia is characterized by increased RBC mass"
"Appropriate absolute polycythemia is characterized by increased EPO"
"Appropriate absolute polycythemia is characterized by decreased O2 saturation"
"Which form of polycythemia is associated with lung disease (ex. COPD / obstructive sleep apnea), congenital heart disease, high altitude, or low birth weight? Appropriate absolute polycythemia (appropriate secondary erythrocytosis)"
"Inappropriate absolute polycythemia is characterized by increased RBC mass"
"Inappropriate absolute polycythemia is characterized by increased EPO"
"Inappropriate absolute polycythemia is characterized by normal O2 saturation"
"Which form of polycythemia is associated with ectopic EPO production (e.g. malignancy, hydronephrosis & renal cysts) or exogenous EPO? Inappropriate absolute polycythemia (innapropriate secondary erythrocytosis)"
"Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is a neoplastic proliferation of mature myeloid cells, especially platelets"
"Blood smear of essential thrombocythemia shows markedly increased number of platelets, which may be large or abnormally formed"
"Symptoms of essential thrombocythemia are related to an increased risk of bleeding and/or thrombosis"
"Are patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET) at risk for marrow fibrosis and/or acute leukemia? No (rare)"
"Does essential thrombocythemia (ET) present with significant risk for hyperuricemia and gout? No"
"Myelofibrosis is a neoplastic proliferation of mature myeloid cells, especially megakaryocytes"
"In myelofibrosis, megakaryocytes produce excess platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and TGF-b, causing marrow fibrosis"
"Myelofibrosis is often associated with massive splenomegaly due to extramedullary hematopoiesis"
"Myelofibrosis is characterized by a(n) leukoerythroblastic smear (increased nucleated RBCs and immature granulocytes) Why?"
"Myelofibrosis causes increased risk of infection, thrombosis, and bleeding due to pancytopenia"
"What pathologic RBC is associated with myelofibrosis? \Tear drop\\" cells (dacrocyte)\""
"Polycythemia vera is characterized by increased WBCs"
"Polycythemia vera is characterized by increased platelets"
"Is polycythemia vera associated with JAK2 mutations? Yes"
"Is essential thrombocythemia associated with JAK2 mutations? Yes (30-50%)"
"Is myelofibrosis associated with JAK2 mutations? Yes (30-50%)"
"Is chronic myeloid leukemia associated with JAK2 mutations? No (associated with Philadelphia chromosome)"
"Lymphadenopathy (LAD) refers to enlarged lymph nodes"
"Painful::painful or painless lymphadenopathy is usually seen in lymph nodes that are draining a region of acute infection"
"Painless::painful or painless lymphadenopathy can be seen with chronic inflammation, metastatic carcinoma, or lymphoma"
"Proliferation of the B cell compartment of lymph nodes causes follicular hyperplasia (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis, early stages of HIV infection)"
"Proliferation of the T cell compartment of lymph nodes causes paracortex hyperplasia (e.g. viral infections)"
"Hyperplasia of sinus histiocytes is seen in lymph nodes that are draining a tissue with cancer"
"Lymphomas::leukemias or lymphomas are neoplastic proliferations of lymphoid cells that form a mass"
"Lymphoma is divided into non-Hodgkin (60%) and Hodgkin lymphoma (40%) *bonus: age groups"
"Follicular lymphoma is a neoplastic proliferation of small B cells (CD20+) that form follicle-like nodules"
"What form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is seen in the image below? Follicular lymphoma"
"Follicular lymphoma typically presents in late adulthood::age group"
"Follicular lymphoma is characterized by painless \waxing and waning\\" lymphadenopathy\""
"Follicular lymphoma is driven by a t(14;18) translocation"
"What chromosome is BCL2 located on? Chromosome 18"
"What chromosome is Ig heavy chain located on? Chromosome 14"
"The Ig heavy chain genes on chromosome 14 are constitutively expressed"
"The t(14;18) translocation results in overexpression of Bcl2, resulting in inhibition of apoptosis"
"Treatment of follicular lymphoma is reserved for symptomatic patients and involves low-dose chemotherapy or rituximab (anti-CD20 antibody)"
"Follicular lymphoma may progress to diffuse, large B-cell lymphoma, which presents as an enlarging lymph node"
"Follicular lymphoma is distinguished from reactive follicular hyperplasia by disruption of normal lymph node architecture"
"Follicular lymphoma is distinguished from reactive follicular hyperplasia by lack of tingible body macrophages::long name (3) in germinal centers"
"Follicular lymphoma is distinguished from reactive follicular hyperplasia by expression of Bcl2 in follicles"
"Follicular lymphoma is distinguished from reactive follicular hyperplasia by mono-clonality"
"Grade 1 follicular lymphoma is characterized by small cleaved cells"
"Grade 2 follicular lymphoma is characterized by a mixture of small cleaved cells and large noncleaved cells"
"Grade 3 follicular lymphoma is characterized by large noncleaved cells"
"Is follicular lymphoma typically aggressive or indolent? Indolent"
"Mantle cell lymphoma is a neoplastic proliferation of small B cells (CD20+ & CD5+) that expands into the mantle zone"
"Which region of the lymph node is immediately adjacent to the follicle? Mantle zone"
"What demographic is associated with mantle cell lymphoma? Adult males"
"Mantle cell lymphoma is driven by a t(11;14) translocation"
"What chromosome is cyclin D1 located on? Chromosome 11"
"The t(11;14) translocation results in overexpression of Cyclin D1, which promotes the G1/S transition in the cell cycle, facilitating neoplastic proliferation"
"Is mantle cell lymphoma typically aggressive or indolent? Aggressive"
"Marginal zone lymphoma is a neoplastic proliferation of small B cells (CD20+) that expands into the marginal zone"
"Marginal zone lymphoma is associated with chronic inflammatory states (e.g. Hashimoto thyroiditis, Sjögren's syndrome, H. pylori gastritis)"
"MALToma is a form of marginal zone lymphoma in mucosal sites"
"Gastric MALTomas may regress with treatment of H. pylori"
"Burkitt lymphoma is a neoplastic proliferation of intermediate-sized B cells (CD20+)"
"Endemic Burkitt lymphoma is associated with EBV infection"
"Burkitt lymphoma classically presents as an extranodal mass in a(n) child or young adult::age group"
"The African form of Burkitt lymphoma typically involves the jaw"
"The sporadic form of Burkitt lymphoma typically affects children and involves the pelvis or abdomen"
"Burkitt lymphoma is driven by a t(8;14) translocation"
"What chromosome is c-myc located on? Chromosome 8"
"The t(8,14) translocation results in overexpression of c-myc, which promotes growth"
"Burkitt lymphoma is characterized by a high mitotic index and \starry-sky\\" appearance on microscopy\""
"Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is a neoplastic proliferation of large B cells (CD20+) that grow diffusely in sheets"
"What is the most common form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma? Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)"
"Is diffuse large B-cell lymphoma typically aggressive or indolent? Aggressive"
"Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma arises sporadically or from transformation of low-grade lymphoma (e.g. follicular lymphoma)"
"Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma often presents in late adulthood::age group as an enlarging lymph node or an extranodal mass"
"While diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is usually seen in older adults, 20% of cases occur in children"
"Primary CNS lymphoma is most commonly seen in patients with AIDS::disease"
"Primary CNS lymphoma typically presents in adults with confusion, memory loss, and seizures (variable presentation)"
"Primary CNS lymphoma typically presents as a single, solid brain lesion on MRI"
"Primary CNS lymphoma must be distinguished from toxoplasmosis infection via CSF analysis or other lab tests"
"Hodgkin lymphoma is a neoplastic proliferation of Reed-Sternberg cells"
"Reed-Sternberg cells are large B cells with multilobed nuclei and prominent nucleoli (\owl eye\\" appearance)\""
"Reed-Sternberg cells are classically positive for CD-15 and CD-30"
"Reed-Sternberg cells secrete cytokines, which attract other inflammatory cells"
"Reed-Sternberg cells occasionally result in \B\\" symptoms (fever"
"The tumors seen in Hodgkin lymphoma are mostly composed of reactive inflammatory cells"
"What is the most common subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma (70%)? Nodular sclerosis"
"What demographic is classically associated with the nodular sclerosis subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma? Young adult females::age and gender"
"The nodular sclerosis subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma typically presents as an enlarging cervical or mediastinal lymph node in a female"
"Which subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma is seen in the image below? Nodular sclerosis - Lymph node divided by bands of sclerosis"
"The nodular sclerosis subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma is characterized histologically by presence of Reed-Sternberg cells in lake-like spaces (lacunar cells)"
"Which subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma has the best prognosis? Lymphocyte-rich"
"Which subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma is often associated with abundant eosinophils? Mixed-cellularity"
"Hodgkin lymphoma may present with eosinophilia due to production of IL-5 by Reed-Sternberg cells (especially mixed cellularity subtype)"
"Which subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma is the most aggressive? Lymphocyte-depleted"
"Which subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma is usually seen in the elderly and HIV+ individuals? Lymphocyte-depleted"
"Most subtypes of Hodgkin lymphoma are more common in men::gender"
"Which type of lymphoma is associated with masses composed of lymphoid cells? Non-Hodgkin lymphoma::Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin"
"Which type of lymphoma is associated with masses composed of reactive inflammatory cells? Hodgkin lymphoma::Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin"
"Which type of lymphoma is characterized by contiguous spread? Hodgkin lymphoma::Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin"
"Which type of lymphoma is characterized by non-contiguous spread? Non-Hodgkin lymphoma::Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin"
"Which type of lymphoma is associated with extranodal involvement? Non-Hodgkin lymphoma::Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin"
"Staging is important and the strongest predictor of prognosis for Hodgkin::Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin lymphoma"
"Radiation is the mainstay of treatment for Hodgkin lymphoma"
"Hodgkin lymphoma has a bimodal distribution: common in young adulthood and adults > 55 years"
"Multiple myeloma is a malignant proliferation of mono-clonal plasma cells in the bone marrow"
"Multiple myeloma is the most common primary malignancy of bone in people > 40 - 50 years old"
"What is the most common bone malignancy? Metastatic cancer"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with high serum IL-6, which stimulates plasma cell growth and immunoglobulin production"
"Multiple myeloma presents with lytic (punched-out) bone lesions and hypercalcemia"
"The bone lesions seen with multiple myeloma are most common in the vertebrae and skull"
"In multiple myeloma, neoplastic plasma cells produce IL-1, which stimulates osteoclast maturation that will lead to bone resorption"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with elevated serum protein"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with M spike on serum protein electrophoresis (SPEP)"
"The M spike seen in multiple myeloma is most commonly due to monoclonal IgG (55%) or IgA (25%)"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with increased risk of infection due to lack of antigenic diversity of monoclonal antibodies"
"What is the most common cause of death in multiple myeloma? Infection"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with Rouleaux formation of RBCs on blood smear"
"Multiple myeloma may deposit in tissue, causing primary (AL) amyloidosis"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with free light chain excretion in the urine, known as Bence Jones proteinuria"
"In multiple myeloma, free light chain (Bence Jones protein) may deposit in kidney tubules, leading to risk for renal failure (myeloma kidney)"
"The signs/symptoms of multiple myeloma may be remembered with the mnemonic \CRAB\\": C: hyperCalcemia R: Renal involvement"
"Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is an asymptomatic condition characterized by an M spike on SPEP without other features of multiple myeloma"
"Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is common in the elderly::age group"
"1-2% of patients with monoclonal gammopathy of underdetermined significance (MGUS) develop multiple myeloma per year"
"Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is a B-cell lymphoma with monoclonal IgM production"
"Does Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia present with lytic bone lesions? No"
"The M spike seen in Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is due to monoclonal IgM"
"Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia typically presents with visual and neurologic deficits without CRAB symptoms of multiple myeloma"
"Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is associated with symptoms of hyperviscosity (due to large size of IgM pentamer)"
"Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia may present with bleeding due to defective platelet aggregation"
"Acute complications of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia are treated with plasmapheresis, which removes IgM from the serum"
"Langerhans cells are specialized dendritic cells predominantly found in skin"
"Langerhans cells are derived from bone marrow monocytes"
"Langerhans cells present antigen to naive T cells"
"Langerhans cell histiocytosis is a neoplastic proliferation of Langerhans cells"
"Langerhans cell histiocytosis is characterized by Birbeck (tennis racket) granules on electron microscopy"
"Langerhans cells are positive for CD1a and S100 on immunohistochemistry"
"S100 is an immunohistochemical stain that stains cells of neural crest origin"
"Langerhans cell histiocytosis may present as recurrent otitis media with a mass involving the mastoid bone"
"Do the Langerhans cells in Langerhans cell histiocytosis effectively stimulate primary T cells via antigen presentation? No (functionally immature)"
"Letterer-Siwe disease is a(n) malignant::benign or malignant proliferation of Langerhans cells"
"Which Langerhans cell histiocytosis presents as skin rash and cystic skeletal defects? Letterer-Siwe disease"
"Letterer-Siwe disease is often seen in infants < 2 years old::age group"
"Eosinophilic granuloma is a(n) benign::benign or malignant proliferation of Langerhans cells"
"Which Langerhans cell histiocytosis presents as pathologic fracture with no skin involvement? Eosinophilic granuloma"
"Eosinophilic granuloma is often seen in adolescents::age group"
"Hand-Schüller-Christian disease is a(n) malignant::benign or malignant proliferation of Langerhans cells"
"Which Langerhans cell histiocytosis presents as scalp rash, lytic skull lesions, diabetes insipidus, and exophthalmos? Hand-Schüller-Christian disease"
"Hand-Schüller-Christian disease is often seen in children > 3 years old::age group"
"Which thalamic nucleus receives input from the spinothalamic tract and dorsal columns? Ventral posterolateral (VPL)"
"What is the destination of the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus? Primary somatosensory cortex"
"Which thalamic nucleus receives input from the trigeminal nerve and gustatory pathway? Ventral posteromedial (VPM)"
"What is the destination of the ventral posteromedial (VPM) nucleus of the thalamus? Primary somatosensory cortex"
"Which thalamic nucleus receives visual input from CN II? Lateral geniculate body (LGB)"
"What is the destination of the lateral geniculate body (LGB) of the thalamus? Primary visual cortex (calcarine sulcus)"
"Which thalamic nucleus receives auditory input from the inferior colliculus and superior olive? Medial geniculate body (MGB)"
"What is the destination of the medial geniculate body (MGB) of the thalamus? Primary auditory cortex (temporal lobe)"
"Which thalamic nuclei receive motor input from the basal ganglia and cerebellum? Ventral anterior (VA) / Ventral lateral (VL)::2"
"What is the destination of the ventral anterior (VA) / ventral lateral (VL) nuclei of the thalamus? Premotor and primary motor cortex"
"Thalamic Pain Syndrome aka Central Post-Stroke Pain syndrome is caused by a(n) thalamic stroke that manifests with pure contralateral::ipsilateral or contralateral? sensory loss and initial paresthesias followed in weeks to months by: - abnormal, unpleasant sense of touch (dysesthesia) - hypersensitivity to pain (allodynia/hyperalgesia)"
"Does central post-stroke pain (thalamic pain) syndrome respond to analgesic medications? No (resistant)"
"The supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus primarily makes ADH"
"The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus primarily secretes oxytocin"
"The suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus is responsible for the circadian rhythm, which regulates the sleep cycle"
"Circadian rhythm: The suprachiasmatic nucleus is regulated by environmental (e.g. light) input"
"Circadian rhythm: The suprachiasmatic nucleus releases norepinephrine, which stimulates the pineal gland to secrete melatonin"
"The ventromedial area of the hypothalamus is responsible for satiety"
"Lesion of the ventromedial area of the hypothalamus results in hyperphagia"
"The ventromedial area of the hypothalamus is stimulated by leptin"
"The lateral area of the hypothalamus is responsible for hunger"
"Lesion of the lateral area of the hypothalamus results in anorexia and failure to thrive (infants)"
"The lateral area of the hypothalamus is stimulated by ghrelin"
"Stimulation of the lateral area of the hypothalamus is inhibited by leptin"
"The anterior hypothalamus senses elevated body temperatures and mediates responses to dissipate heat"
"Lesion of the anterior hypothalamus results in hyperthermia"
"The anterior hypothalamus is controlled by the parasympathetic nervous system"
"The posterior hypothalamus senses decreased body temperatures and mediates responses to conserve heat"
"Lesion of the posterior hypothalamus results in poikilothermy (cold-blooded)"
"The posterior hypothalamus is controlled by the sympathetic nervous system"
"Stimulation of the dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus results in savage behavior and obesity"
"Circumventricular organs (CVOs) are structures in the brain that are characterized by extensive vasculature and lack of blood-brain-barrier"
"The OVLT (organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis) is a circumventricular organ that senses changes in serum osmolarity"
"The area postrema (chemoreceptor trigger zone) is a circumventricular organ found in the medulla that responds to emetics"
"The epithalamus consists of the pineal gland and habenular nuclei"
"The pineal gland is responsible for melatonin secretion and circadian rhythms"
"Lateral medullary syndrome is also known as Wallenberg syndrome"
"Medial midbrain syndrome is also known as Weber syndrome"
"Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is associated with the t(12;21) translocation"
"The t(9;22) translocation (BCR-ABL) is also known as the Philadelphia chromosome"
"Is this the left or right lateral hemisphere of the brain? Left - The temporal lobe points toward the direct of the hemisphere"
"The lateral (Sylvian) fissure separates the temporal lobe from parietal and frontal lobes"
"The central sulcus separates the frontal and parietal lobes"
"The parieto-occipital sulcus separates the parietal and occipital lobes"
"The pre-central gyrus is the area of the primary motor cortex (frontal lobe)"
"The post-central gyrus is the area of the primary somatosensory cortex (parietal lobe)"
"The motor/sensory areas corresponding to the face are located in the lateral::medial or lateral aspects of the pre-/post-central gyri"
"The motor/sensory areas corresponding to the upper limbs are located in the lateral::medial or lateral aspects of the pre-/post-central gyri"
"The motor/sensory areas corresponding to the lower limbs are located in the medial::medial or lateral aspects of the pre-/post-central gyri"
"The lateral aspect of the pre-/post-central gyrus is supplied by the middle cerebral artery"
"The medial aspect of the pre-/post-central gyrus is supplied by the anterior cerebral artery"
"Which layer of the six-layered neocortex contains cell bodies of neurons that form the corticospinal and corticobulbar tracts? Internal pyramidal layer (layer V)"
"Which layer of the six-layered neocortex is the site of termination of the thalamocortical projections? Internal granular layer (layer IV)"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the medial surface of the frontal/parietal lobes? Anterior cerebral artery"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the superior ~1 inch of the frontal/parietal cortex? Anterior cerebral artery"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the anterior four-fifths of the corpus callosum? Anterior cerebral artery"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the anterior limb of the internal capsule? Anterior cerebral artery"
"Which cerebral artery supplies most of the lateral surface of the cerebral hemisphere? Middle cerebral artery"
"Which main cerebral artery supplies the genu/posterior limb of the internal capsule? Middle cerebral artery"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the occipital lobe? Posterior cerebral artery"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the inferior temporal lobe? Posterior cerebral artery"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the splenium of the corpus callosum? Posterior cerebral artery"
"The area between the ACA/MCA, PCA/MCA (Cortical Border Zone) and the Deep / Superficial branches of the MCA (Internal Border Zone) represent watershed zones"
"Damage to watershed zones occurs with severe hypotension"
"Damage to the internal border zone results in bilateral proximal extremity weakness"
"Damage to the watershed zone between the middle and posterior cerebral arteries results in defects in higher-order visual processing"
"What does Brodmann area 3, 1, 2 refer to? Primary somatosensory cortex"
"What does Brodmann area 4 refer to? Primary motor cortex"
"Neurons of the premotor cortex are involved in planning of motor activities"
"Neurons of the prefrontal cortex are involved in organizing and planning the intellectual and emotional aspects of behavior"
"Lesions to the frontal lobe may result in disinhibition, apathy, and deficits in concentration, orientation, and judgment"
"Lesions to the frontal lobe may present with re-emergence of primitive reflexes"
"Neurons of the somatosensory association cortex are involved in integration of information processed in the primary somatosensory cortex"
"Lesions to the somatosensory association cortex result in astereognosis, which is the inability to recognize objects by touch"
"The language centers are found in the \dominant\\" hemisphere"
"Which cerebral artery supplies the language centers (Broca's area, Wernicke's area)? Middle cerebral artery"
"Which \language center\\" is the center for motor speech? Broca's area\""
"Which \language center\\" is located in the inferior frontal gyrus of the frontal lobe? Broca's area\""
"Which \language center\\" is the center for language comprehension? Wernicke's area\""
"Which \language center\\" is located in the superior temporal gyrus of the temporal lobe? Wernicke's area\""
"Aphasia is a higher-order language deficit (inability to understand, speak, read, and/or write) caused by pathology in the language centers of the brain"
"Dysarthria is a motor inability to speak"
"Broca (expressive) aphasia is characterized by nonfluent::fluent or nonfluent speech"
"Broca's (expressive) aphasia is characterized by intact::intact or impaired comprehension"
"Broca's (expressive) aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired repetition"
"Which type of aphasia is characterized by the following: Broca (expressive) aphasia 1. Nonfluent speech 2. Intact comprehension 3. Impaired repetition"
"Wernicke (receptive) aphasia is characterized by fluent::fluent or nonfluent speech"
"Wernicke (receptive) aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired comprehension"
"Wernicke (receptive) aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired repetition"
"Which type of aphasia is characterized by the following: Wernicke (receptive) aphasia 1. Fluent speech 2. Impaired comprehension 3. Impaired repetition"
"Conduction aphasia is characterized by fluent::fluent or nonfluent speech"
"Conduction aphasia is characterized by intact::intact or impaired comprehension"
"Conduction aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired repetition"
"Which type of aphasia is characterized by the following: Conduction aphasia 1. Fluent speech 2. Intact comprehension 3. Impaired repetition"
"Conduction aphasia is caused by damage to the arcuate fasciculus, which is a large fiber bundle that connects Broca's area with Wernicke's area"
"Global aphasia is characterized by nonfluent::fluent or nonfluent speech"
"Global aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired comprehension"
"Global aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired repetition"
"Which type of aphasia is characterized by the following: Global aphasia 1. Nonfluent speech 2. Impaired comprehension 3. Impaired repetition"
"Global aphasia is caused by damage to Broca's area, Wernicke's area, and the arcuate fasciculus"
"Transcortical motor aphasia is characterized by nonfluent::fluent or nonfluent speech"
"Transcortical motor aphasia is characterized by intact::intact or impaired comprehension"
"Transcortical motor aphasia is characterized by intact::intact or impaired repetition"
"Which type of aphasia is characterized by the following: Transcortical motor aphasia 1. Nonfluent speech 2. Intact comprehension 3. Intact repetition"
"Transcortical motor aphasia is caused by damage to the areas around Broca's area; Broca's area itself is spared"
"Transcortical sensory aphasia is characterized by fluent::fluent or nonfluent speech"
"Transcortical sensory aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired comprehension"
"Transcortical sensory aphasia is characterized by intact::intact or impaired repetition"
"Which type of aphasia is characterized by the following: Transcortical sensory aphasia 1. Fluent speech 2. Impaired comprehension 3. Intact repetition"
"Transcortical sensory aphasia is caused by damage to the areas around Wernicke's area; Wernicke's area itself is spared"
"Transcortical mixed aphasia is characterized by nonfluent::fluent or nonfluent speech"
"Transcortical mixed aphasia is characterized by impaired::intact or impaired comprehension"
"Transcortical mixed aphasia is characterized by intact::intact or impaired repetition"
"Which type of aphasia is characterized by the following: Transcortical mixed aphasia 1. Nonfluent speech 2. Impaired comprehension 3. Intact repetition"
"Transcortical mixed aphasia is caused by damage to the watershed areas around (but not including) Broca and Wernicke areas and the arcuate fasciculus"
"Gerstmann syndrome is caused by lesion to the angular gyrus of the dominant parietal cortex"
"Gerstmann syndrome is characterized by agraphia, acalculia, finger agnosia, and left-right disorientation"
"Hemispatial neglect syndrome is caused by lesion to the non-dominant parietal cortex"
"Hemispatial neglect syndrome is characterized by inability to process sensory information (agnosia) of the contra-lateral half of the world"
"Strokes involving the anterior cerebral artery may cause paralysis and sensory loss of the contra-lateral lower limb"
"Strokes involving the middle cerebral artery may cause paralysis and sensory loss of the contra-lateral upper limb and face"
"Strokes involving the middle cerebral artery may cause aphasia if in the dominant hemisphere"
"Strokes involving the middle cerebral artery may cause hemineglect if in the non-dominant hemisphere"
"Strokes involving the lenticulostriate artery may cause paralysis and sensory loss of the contra-lateral entire body"
"Which anterior circulation stroke causes paralysis/sensory loss of the face and upper limb with cortical signs (e.g. aphasia, neglect)? Middle cerebral artery stroke"
"Which anterior circulation stroke causes paralysis/sensory loss of the face and upper limb without cortical signs (e.g. aphasia, neglect)? Lenticulostriate artery stroke"
"The limbic system is a collection of neural structures involved in emotion, long-term memory, olfaction, behavior modulation, and ANS function"
"Structures of the limbic system include the hippocampus, amygdala, fornix, mammillary bodies, and cingulate gyrus"
"Olfactory deficits are often caused by head injuries that fracture the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone"
"In addition to olfactory deficits, cribriform plate injuries may also cause CSF rhinorrhea"
"Which part of the limbic system is responsible for learning and memory? Hippocampus"
"Which part of the limbic system is responsible for attaching an emotional significance to a stimulus? Amygdala"
"Bilateral lesions of the hippocampus result in anterograde amnesia, which is the inability to create new memories"
"Bilateral lesions of the amygdala result in Kluver-Bucy syndrome"
"Kluver-Bucy syndrome is characterized by disinhibited behavior, such as hyperphagia, hypersexuality, and hyperorality"
"Bilateral lesions of the amygdala (and thus Kluver-Bucy syndrome) are associated with HSV-1 encephalitis"
"Wernicke encephalopathy is characterized by a triad of confusion, ophthalmoplegia, and ataxia"
"Korsakoff syndrome is a late manifestion of Wernicke encephalopathy characterized by confabulations, irreversible memory loss, and personality changes"
"Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is characterized by: - damage bilaterally to the mammillary bodies - periventricular hemorrhagic lesions to the dorsomedial nucleus of the thalamus"
"Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is associated with thiamine (B1) deficiency and excessive alcohol use"
"Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome can be precipitated by giving glucose without B1 to a B1 deficient patient"
"ID Sulcus: Central sulcus"
"ID Gyrus: Precentral gyrus"
"ID Gyrus: Postcentral gyrus"
"ID Sulcus: Lateral fissure/sulcus"
"ID Sulcus: Parieto-occipital sulcus"
"ID Sulcus: Calcarine sulcus"
"ID Gyrus: Lingual gyrus"
"ID Gyrus: Cuneus gyrus"
"ID Sulcus: Cingulate sulcus"
"ID Vessel: Anterior spinal artery"
"ID Vessel: Posterior inferior cerebellar artery"
"ID Vessel: Anterior inferior cerebellar artery"
"ID Vessel: Vertebral artery"
"ID Vessel: Basilar artery"
"ID Vessel: Superior cerebellar artery"
"ID Vessel: Posterior cerebral artery"
"ID Vessel: Posterior communicating artery"
"ID Vessel: Anterior cerebral artery"
"ID Vessel: Anterior communicating artery"
"ID Vessel: Middle cerebral artery"
"ID Vessel: Anterior cerebral artery"
"ID Vessel: Middle cerebral artery"
"ID Cortical Area: Frontal eye field (Brodmann area 8)"
"ID Cortical Area: Premotor cortex (Brodmann area 6)"
"ID Cortical Area: Primary motor cortex (Brodmann area 4)"
"ID Cortical Area: Primary somatosensory cortex (Brodmann area 3, 1, 2)"
"ID Cortical Area: Somatosensory association cortex"
"ID Cortical Area: Primary visual cortex"
"ID Cortical Area: Wernicke's area (Brodmann area 22)"
"ID Cortical Area: Primary auditory cortex (Brodmann area 41 & 42)"
"ID Cortical Area: Broca's area (Brodmann area 44 & 45)"
"ID Cortical Area: Prefrontal cortex"
"ID Red-Curvy Structure: Arcuate fasciculus"
"Meningitis is defined as inflammation of the leptomeninges"
"The meninges are composed of three layers: dura, arachnoid, pia"
"The pia and arachnoid, together, are termed leptomeninges"
"The most common cause of meningitis in neonates is group B streptococci (S. agalactiae) infection"
"In addition to group B streptococci, neonatal meningitis is also commonly caused by E. coli and Listeria monocytogenes infection"
"The most common cause of meningitis in teenagers is Neisseria meningitidis infection"
"The most common cause of meningitis in adults and the elderly is Streptococcus pneumoniae infection"
"What is a common cause of meningitis in an unvaccinated child? H. influenzae type B"
"Common viral causes of meningitis include enteroviruses (especially coxsackievirus) and HSV-2"
"What is a common cause of fungal meningitis in an HIV+ individual? Cryptococcus species"
"Which enterovirus most commonly causes meningitis? Coxsackievirus"
"In addition to S. pneumoniae infection, meningitis in the elderly is also commonly caused by infection with gram negative rods and Listeria monocytogenes"
"Meningitis presents with a classic triad of: - altered level of consciousness - nuchal rigidity - high fever"
"Diagnosis of meningitis is made by lumbar puncture"
"What is the deepest layer crossed when doing a lumbar puncture? Arachnoid mater"
"Does a lumbar puncture normally pierce the pia mater? No"
"What opening pressure (lumbar puncture) is associated with bacterial meningitis? Increased pressure"
"Bacterial meningitis is associated with significantly increased Neutrophils::cell type in the CSF"
"Bacterial meningitis is associated with increased protein in the CSF"
"Bacterial meningitis is associated with decreased glucose in the CSF"
"Which type of meningitis presents with decreased sugar and increased PMNs in the CSF? Bacterial meningitis"
"What opening pressure (lumbar puncture) is associated with fungal/TB meningitis? Increased pressure"
"Fungal/TB meningitis is associated with increased lymphocytes::cell type in the CSF"
"Fungal/TB meningitis is associated with increased protein in the CSF"
"Fungal/TB meningitis is associated with decreased glucose in the CSF"
"Which type of meningitis presents with decreased sugar and increased lymphocytes in the CSF? Fungal/TB meningitis"
"What opening pressure (lumbar puncture) is associated with viral meningitis? Normal or increased pressure"
"Viral meningitis is associated with increased lymphocytes::cell type in the CSF"
"Viral meningitis is associated with normal or increased protein in the CSF"
"Viral meningitis is associated with normal glucose in the CSF"
"Which type of meningitis presents with normal sugar and increased lymphocytes in the CSF? Viral meningitis"
"Complications of meningitis are classically seen with bacterial meningitis and are a result of the massive inflammatory response in the CSF"
"Bacterial meningitis may cause death due to herniation, secondary to cerebral edema"
"Bacterial meningitis may lead to high pressure hydrocephalus, hearing loss, and seizures, secondary to fibrosis"
"Meningitis is treated empirically with ceftriaxone and vancomycin; add ampicillin if Listeria is suspected"
"Cerebrovascular disease is caused by ischemia (85%) or hemorrhage (15%)"
"Cerebrovascular disease due to ischemia is characterized as focal or global ischemia"
"Mild global cerebral ischemia results in transient confusion with prompt recovery"
"Mild global cerebral ischemia may occur with repeat episodes of hypoglycemia (e.g. insulinoma)"
"Severe global cerebral ischemia results in diffuse necrosis; survival leads to a \vegetative state\\"\""
"Moderate global cerebral ischemia typically affects the hippocampus (most vulnerable), neocortex, cerebellum, and watershed areas"
"Cerebral ischemia of the neocortex typically affects layers 3, 5, and 6, causing cortical laminar necrosis"
"Which layer of the cerebellum is most affected by global cerebral ischemia? Purkinje layer"
"Is the neuronal injury due to cerebral ischemia reversible or irreversible? Irreversible"
"Irreversible damage due to cerebral ischemia begins after 5 minutes of hypoxia"
"Ischemic stroke is a regional cerebral ischemia that results in focal neurologic deficits lasting > 24 hours"
"Thrombotic ischemic strokes are due to clot forming directly at the site of infarction, usually over a(n) atherosclerotic plaque"
"Thrombotic ischemic strokes commonly affect the middle cerebral artery"
"Thrombotic ischemic strokes result in a(n) pale infarct at the periphery of the cortex"
"Embolic ischemic strokes are due to an embolus from another part of the body that obstructs a vessel"
"One common cause of an embolic ischemic stroke is atrial fibrillation::heart"
"One common cause of an embolic ischemic stroke is DVT in a patient with a(n) patent foramen ovale"
"Embolic ischemic strokes result in a(n) hemorrhagic (red) infarct at the periphery of the cortex"
"Embolic ischemic strokes commonly affect the middle cerebral artery"
"Lacunar strokes often occur secondary to hyaline arteriolosclerosis, a complication of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and smoking"
"Lacunar strokes most commonly involve the lenticulostriate vessels, resulting in small cystic areas of infarction"
"Hypoxic ischemic strokes are due to hypoperfusion or hypoxemia; common during cardiovascular surgeries"
"Ischemic strokes result in liquefactive necrosis"
"One histological feature seen after an ischemic stroke is the presence of red neurons, which appear between 12 - 24 hours"
"One histological feature seen after an ischemic stroke is the presence of neutrophils which cause liquefactive necrosis, appearing between 1 - 3 days"
"One histological feature seen after an ischemic stroke is the presence of microglia, which appear between 3 - 5 days"
"One histological feature seen after an ischemic stroke is the presence of reactive gliosis and vascular proliferation, which appear between 1 - 2 weeks"
"One histological feature seen after an ischemic stroke is the presence of a(n) glial scar, which appears after 2 weeks"
"Ischemic strokes result in the formation of a fluid-filled cystic space surrounded by gliosis (reactive astrocytes that line cystic space)"
"If a stroke is suspected, noncontrast CT is used to exclude hemorrhage before tPA can be given"
"Ischemic strokes may be visualized on CT after 6 - 24 hours"
"Ischemic strokes may be visualized on diffusion-weighted MRI after 3 - 30 minutes"
"The treatment for ischemic stroke is tPA if within 3 - 4.5 hours of onset and there's no hemorrhage/risk of hemorrhage"
"Transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a brief, reversible episode of focal neurologic dysfunction without acute infarction (negative MRI)"
"Transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a regional cerebral ischemia that results in focal neurologic deficits lasting < 24 hours (majority resolve in < 15 minutes)"
"Intraparenchymal hemorrhage is characterized by bleeding into the brain parenchyma"
"Intraparenchymal hemorrhage most commonly occurs due to rupture of Charcot-Bouchard microaneurysms, secondary to chronic hypertension"
"Intraparenchymal hemorrhage may be seen with amyloid angiopathy, which is characterized by recurrent lobar hemorrhagic strokes in the elderly"
"Less common causes of intraparenchymal hemorrhage include vasculitis and neoplasm"
"Intraparenchymal hemorrhage may occur secondary to reperfusion injury following an ischemic stroke"
"Intraparenchymal hemorrhage typically occurs in the basal ganglia and internal capsule, but can occur in the cerebral hemispheres, brainstem, and cerebellum"
"Which type of intracranial hemorrhage is seen in the image below? Subarachnoid hemorrhage - Bleed on the bottom of the brain"
"Subarachnoid hemorrhage presents with sudden headache and nuchal rigidity"
"Which intracranial hemorrhage presents as the \worst headache of my life\\"? Subarachnoid hemorrhage\""
"Subarachnoid hemorrhage is characterized by a(n) yellow (xanthochromic) spinal tap"
"Subarachnoid hemorrhage is frequently due to rupture of a(n) berry (saccular) aneurysm"
"Less common causes of subarachnoid hemorrhage include arteriovenous (AV) malformations and an anticoagulated state"
"3 - 10 days after a subarachnoid hemorrhage, vasospasm can occur in the areas surrounding the ruptured aneurysm, which may cause an ischemic infarct"
"Subarachnoid hemorrhage is associated with increased risk of developing communicating high pressure and/or obstructive hydrocephalus"
"Which vascular layer do saccular (berry) aneurysms lack? Tunica Media"
"The most common site for a(n) berry (saccular) aneurysm is at the junction of the anterior communicating and anterior cerebral arteries"
"What connective tissue disease is associated with berry aneurysms? Ehlers-Danlos syndrome"
"What renal pathology is associated with berry aneurysms? Autosomal dominant PKD"
"Risk factors for berry aneurysms include advanced age, hypertension, smoking, and race (increased risk in African Americans)"
"Charcot-Bouchard microaneurysms are common and associated with chronic hypertension"
"Charcot-Bouchard microaneurysms affect small::size vessels"
"Are Charcot-Bouchard microaneurysms seen on angiogram? No"
"Saccular aneurysms of the anterior communicating artery may cause compression of the optic chiasm"
"Saccular aneurysms of the posterior communicating artery may cause compression of the CN III"
"Epidural hematoma is a collection of blood between the dura and the skull"
"Epidural hematoma is classically due to a(n) fracture at the pterion of the temporal bone"
"Epidural hematoma is due to rupture of the middle meningeal artery (branch of maxillary artery)"
"Epidural hematoma is characterized by a(n) hyper-dense lens (biconvex)-shaped collection of blood on CT"
"Epidural hematoma is characterized by rapid expansion due to high arterial pressure and can present with a(n) scalp hematoma as well"
"Epidural hematoma often presents with a loss of consciousness followed by a(n) lucid interval for up to 48 hours"
"Epidural hematoma may present on physical exam with CN III palsy"
"Transtentorial herniation is a potentially lethal complication of epidural hematoma"
"Can epidural hematomas cross suture lines? No"
"Subdural hematoma is a collection of blood underneath the dura"
"Subdural hematoma is due to tearing of bridging veins that lie between the dura and arachnoid"
"Acute subdural hematomas arise with trauma and appear hyper-dense on CT"
"Chronic subdural hematomas appear hypo-dense on CT"
"Chronic subdural hematoma is more common in alcoholics and the elderly due to cerebral atrophy, which stretches the bridging veins"
"Which intracranial hemorrhage is seen in shaken babies? Subdural hematoma"
"Which intracranial hemorrhage more commonly causes a midline shift? Subdural hematoma"
"Subdural hematoma is characterized by a(n) crescent-shaped hemorrhage on CT"
"Can subdural hematomas cross suture lines? Yes"
"Herniation is displacement of brain tissue due to mass effect or increased intracranial pressure"
"Tonsillar herniation involves displacement of the cerebellar tonsils into the foramen magnum"
"Tonsillar herniation results in compression of the brain stem, which causes cardiopulmonary arrest"
"Subfalcine (cingulate) herniation involves displacement of the cingulate gyrus under the falx cerebri"
"Subfalcine herniation may result in compression of the anterior cerebral artery, which causes infarction"
"Uncal herniation involves displacement of the medial temporal lobe (uncus) under the tentorium cerebelli"
"Uncal herniation may cause compression of CN III, leading to an ipsilateral dilated pupil with a \down and out\\" gaze\""
"Uncal herniation may cause compression of the posterior cerebral artery, causing infarction of the occipital lobe"
"Uncal herniation typically compresses the cerebral peduncle on the same side of the herniation resulting in a(n) contralateral paresis"
"If uncal herniation is so severe that it is able to reach the opposite cerebral peduncle, it will cause a(n) ipsilateral paresis and/or contralateral CNIII palsy (this phenomenon is known as Kernohan's Notch)"
"Downward transtentorial (central) herniation may result in rupture of the paramedian branches of the basilar artery, which cause Duret hemorrhages"
"Demyelinating disorders are characterized by destruction of myelin or oligodendrocytes"
"Demyelinating disorders generally result in preservation::destruction or preservation of axons"
"Metachromatic leukodystrophy is due to deficiency of the enzyme arylsulfatase A"
"In metachromatic leukodystrophy, sulfatides accumulate in the lysosomes of oligodendrocytes"
"Accumulation of sulfatides in metachromatic leukodystrophy results in destruction and impaired production of the myelin sheath"
"Metachromatic leukodystrophy is characterized by central and peripheral demyelination with subsequent ataxia and dementia"
"Krabbe disease is due to deficiency of the enzyme galactocerebrosidase"
"In Krabbe disease, galactocerebroside and psychosine accumulate in macrophages and destroy the myelin sheath"
"Which leukodystrophy presents with optic atrophy and globoid cells? Krabbe disease"
"Adrenoleukodystrophy is due to a mutation in a(n) peroxisomal membrane transporter, preventing very long chain fatty acids (VLCFAs) from being tagged with coenzyme A"
"Is adrenoleukodystrophy an X-linked or autosomal defect? X-linked"
"Adrenoleukodystrophy disrupts the peroxisomal metabolism of very-long-chain fatty acids, resulting in excessive buildup in the nervous system, adrenal gland, and testes"
"Adrenoleukodystrophy is a progressive disease that damages the adrenal glands and white matter of the brain"
"What is the most common leukodystrophy? Metachromatic leukodystrophy"
"Multiple sclerosis is a(n) autoimmune destruction of CNS myelin and oligodendrocytes"
"Multiple sclerosis is the most common chronic CNS disease of young adults"
"What demographic is most commonly affected by multiple sclerosis? Females in their 20s and 30s::age, gender"
"Multiple sclerosis is associated with HLA-DR2"
"Multiple sclerosis is more commonly seen in caucasians in regions away from::towards or away from the equator"
"What CNS pathology is characterized by \multiple lesions in time and space\\"? Multiple sclerosis\""
"Multiple sclerosis may cause optic neuritis, resulting in sudden loss of vision and Marcus Gunn pupils"
"Multiple sclerosis may present with vertigo and scanning speech due to involvement of the brainstem (mimics alcohol intoxication)"
"Which symptoms can be caused by multiple sclerosis: hemiparesis or hemisensory symptoms Both :)"
"Multiple sclerosis may present with bowel and bladder dysfunction due to involvement of the ANS"
"Multiple sclerosis most commonly manifests with fatigue, but may also present with (mnemonic = SIIIN) S: Scanning speech I: Intention tremor I: Incontinence I: INO N: Nystagmus"
"What imaging modality is the gold standard for diagnosis of multiple sclerosis? MRI"
"What MRI finding is associated with multiple sclerosis? Periventricular plaques"
"Multiple sclerosis is characterized by increased levels of IgG in the CSF"
"Oligoclonal bands of IgG on high resolution electrophoresis is diagnostic of multiple sclerosis"
"Multiple sclerosis is characterized by increased levels of myelin basic protein in the CSF"
"Multiple sclerosis is characterized by increased levels of lymphocytes in the CSF"
"Multiple sclerosis is characterized grossly by gray-appearing plaques in the white matter"
"Multiple sclerosis symptoms are often worsened upon exposure to heat::temperature"
"Treatment for acute attacks of multiple sclerosis include high-dose steroids"
"Long-term treatment of multiple sclerosis with disease-modifying therapies stop relapses and halt/slows progression of disease (options include interferon β, glatiramer and natalizumab)"
"Symptomatic treatment of neurogenic bladder in MS patients may include catheterization and/or muscarinic antagonists"
"Symptomatic treatment of spasticity in MS patients may include baclofen or other GABAB receptor agonists"
"Symptomatic treatment of pain in MS patients may include TCAs and anticonvulsants"
"Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) is due to slowly progressing, persistent infection of the brain by measles virus"
"Does subacute sclerosing panencephalitis affect gray matter or white matter? Both :)"
"How soon after measles infection does subacute sclerosing panencephalitis typically present? Years later"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is due to reactivation of JC virus in previously infected oligodendrocytes"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is characterized by destruction of oligodendrocytes and astrocytes; typically in the parietal and occipital areas"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is seen in immunosuppressed (e.g. AIDS, leukemia) patients due to reactivation of latent JC virus infection"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy is rapidly progressive and usually fatal"
"There is increased risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy in patients taking natalizumab and rituximab"
"Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome is also referred to as Central pontine myelinolysis"
"Osmotic demyelination syndrome is characterized by massive axonal demyelination of the pons::brain stem area"
"Rapid correction of hypo-natremia results in Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome"
"Rapid correction of hyper-natremia results in cerebral edema/herniation"
"Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome typically occurs in severely malnourished patients"
"Osmotic Demyelination Syndrome classically presents as \locked in\\" syndrome\""
"\Locked-in\\" syndrome is typically caused by stroke of the basilar artery\""
"\Locked-in\\" syndrome presents with quadriplegia and loss of voluntary facial"
"What movements are still possible in patients with \locked in\\" syndrome? Vertical eye movement"
"Does \locked in\\" syndrome result in loss of consciousness? No (preserved consciousness)\""
"Degeneration of the neurons of the cerebral cortex leads to dementia (e.g. Alzheimer's)"
"Degeneration of the neurons of the brainstem and basal ganglia leads to movement disorders (e.g. Parkinson's, Huntington's)"
"Dementia is defined as decreased cognitive ability, memory, or function with intact consciousness"
"What is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly? Alzheimer disease"
"Alzheimer disease presents with slow::speed-onset memory loss, beginning with short-term and progressing to long-term loss"
"Are focal neurologic deficits seen in early Alzheimer disease? No"
"Over 90% of Alzheimer disease cases are sporadic::sporadic or familial"
"The ε4 allele of apolipoprotein E is associated with increased risk for Alzheimer disease"
"The ε2 allele of apolipoprotein E is associated with decreased risk for Alzheimer disease"
"Familial cases of Alzheimer disease (10%) are characterized by a(n) earlier age of onset (relative to sporadic cases)"
"Patients with Down syndrome have an increased risk for developing Alzheimer disease"
"Down syndrome patients often develop Alzheimer disease by age 40"
"Familial cases of Alzheimer disease are associated with mutations in presenilin-1 and presenilin-2"
"Alzheimer disease is characterized by widespread cortical atrophy"
"Alzheimer disease is characterized by widening of sulci"
"Alzheimer disease is characterized by narrowing of gyri"
"What type of hydrocephalus may be seen with Alzheimer disease? Hydrocephalus ex vacuo"
"Alzheimer disease is characterized histologically by neuritic (senile) plaques in gray matter"
"The neuritic plaques seen in Alzheimer's are composed of Aβ amyloid with entangled neuritic processes"
"Aβ amyloid is derived from amyloid precursor protein, which is encoded on chromosome 21"
"The APP receptor on neurons is normally broken down by alpha::alpha or beta cleavage"
"The APP receptor on neurons is occasionally broken down by beta cleavage, resulting in formation of Aβ amyloid"
"The Aβ amyloid in Alzheimer's patients may deposit around vessels, causing amyloid angiopathy"
"Amyloid angiopathy increases risk for intracranial hemorrhage"
"What feature of Alzheimer disease is represented in the image below? Senile (neuritic) plaque"
"Alzheimer disease is characterized by neurofibrillary tangles, which are intracellular aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein"
"The tau protein that aggregates in Alzheimer's normally functions as a(n) microtubule-associated protein"
"The number of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's correlates with degree of dementia"
"What feature of Alzheimer disease is represented in the image below? Neurofibrillary tangles"
"Alzheimer's disease is characterized by decreased acetylcholine"
"The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is confirmed by histology at autopsy (when possible)"
"Vascular dementia is a result of multiple arterial infarcts and/or chronic ischemia (e.g. hypertension, atherosclerosis, vasculitis)"
"Vascular dementia is characterized by a step-wise decline in cognitive ability with late-onset memory impairment"
"What is the 2nd most common cause of dementia in the elderly? Vascular dementia"
"Vascular dementia is characterized by presence of multiple cortical and/or subcortical infarcts on MRI or CT"
"Pick disease is a degenerative disease of the frontal and temporal cortex"
"Frontotemporal dementia (Pick disease) is characterized by round::shape aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein known as Pick bodies; may be seen with silver stain"
"Frontotemporal dementia (Pick disease) may have ubiquitinated TDP-43 inclusions seen on histology"
"Frontotemporal dementia is characterized by behavioral and/or language symptoms early in the disease course"
"Frontotemporal dementia may have associated movement disorders"
"Parkinson disease is characterized by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the basal ganglia"
"Parkinson disease is characterized grossly by depigmentation of the substantia nigra pars compacta"
"Parkinson disease is a common disorder related to aging (risk factor)"
"What contaminant in illicit drugs historically is associated with Parkinson disease? MPTP"
"The clinical features of Parkinson disease may be remembered with the mnemonic \TRAPS\\": T: Tremor (pill-rolling tremor at rest; disappears with movement) R: Rigidity (cogwheel rigidity in the extremities) A: Akinesia/bradykinesia (slowing of voluntary movement; expressionless face) P: Postural instability S: Shuffling gait\""
"Which movement disorder presents as an uncontrolled movement of distal appendages at rest that is alleviated by intentional movement? Resting tremor"
"Parkinson disease is characterized histologically by Lewy bodies, which are round, eosinophilic inclusions composed of α-synuclein"
"What feature of Parkinson disease is represented in the image below? Lewy body"
"Parkinson disease is characterized by increased acetylcholine"
"Parkinson disease is characterized by decreased dopamine"
"Parkinson disease is characterized by decreased serotonin"
"Dementia is a common feature of late::early or late Parkinson disease"
"Early-onset dementia with Parkinsonian features is suggestive of Lewy body dementia"
"Lewy body dementia is characterized initially by dementia with fluctuating cognition / alertness, a(n) REM::which stage? sleep behavior disorder, visual hallucinations, followed by parkinsonian features"
"Lewy body dementia is characterized by intracellular lewy bodies primarily in the cortex::location in the brain"
"Huntington disease is characterized by degeneration of GABAergic neurons in the caudate nucleus and putamen of the basal ganglia"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Huntington disease? Autosomal dominant"
"Huntington disease is caused by expanded trinucleotide repeats of CAG in the huntingtin gene on chromosome 4"
"Further expansion of CAG repeats (Huntington disease) occurs during spermatogenesis in males, which leads to anticipation in future generations"
"What movement disorders are associated with Huntington disease? Chorea and Athetosis"
"Which movement disorder presents as a sudden, jerky, purposeless movements? Chorea"
"Which movement disorder presents as a slow, writhing movements, especially in the fingers? Athetosis"
"Symptoms of Huntington disease typically manifest between ages 20 and 50"
"Huntington disease presents with chorea that can progress to depression and dementia; also may have aggression"
"Huntington disease is sometimes initially mistaken for substance abuse"
"Huntington disease is characterized by decreased GABA"
"Huntington disease is characterized by decreased acetylcholine"
"Huntington disease is characterized by increased dopamine"
"Neuronal death in Huntington disease occurs via NMDA-R binding and glutamate excitotoxicity"
"What type of hydrocephalus may be seen with Huntington disease? Hydrocephalus ex vacuo"
"What is a common unnatural cause of death in patients with Huntington disease? Suicide"
"Hydrocephalus is an increase in CSF volume that causes ventricular dilation +/- increased ICP"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus is a form of communicating::communicating or non-communicating hydrocephalus"
"In normal pressure hydrocephalus, CSF pressure is episodically elevated"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus typically affects the elderly::age group"
"Does normal pressure hydrocephalus result in increased subarachnoid space volume? No"
"Expansion of the ventricles in normal pressure hydrocephalus results in distortion of the fibers of the corona radiata"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus classically presents with a triad of urinary incontinence, gait apraxia, and dementia"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus often presents with a characteristic magnetic gait"
"The symptoms of normal pressure hydrocephalus improve with lumbar puncture"
"What is the treatment for normal pressure hydrocephalus? Ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunting"
"Which form of hydrocephalus is caused by decreased brain tissue (atrophy)? Hydrocephalus ex vacuo"
"Hydrocephalus ex vacuo is characterized by normal intracranial pressure (ICP)"
"Communicating high pressure hydrocephalus is almost always caused by decreased CSF absorption by arachnoid granulations (no obstruction of CSF flow from the ventriculi to subarachnoid space)"
"Communicating high pressure hydrocephalus is characterized by increased ICP, which may cause papilledema and herniation"
"Non-communicating (obstructive) hydrocephalus is caused by structural blockage of CSF within ventricular circulation"
"Spongiform encephalopathy is a degenerative disease due to abnormal prion proteins"
"Prion protein is normally expressed in CNS neurons in a(n) α-helical conformation, known as PrPc"
"Prion disease arises with conversion to a(n) β-pleated conformation, known as PrPsc"
"The conversion of prions from PrPc (normal) to PrPsc (diseased) can be sporadic, inherited, or transmitted"
"Are pathologic prion proteins degradable? No (resistant to proteases)"
"Can pathologic prions convert normal prions into pathologic prions? Yes"
"Spongiform encephalopathy is characterized histologically by intracellular vacuoles due to damage to neurons and glial cells"
"What is the most common form of spongiform encephalopathy? Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD)"
"Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is usually sporadic, but can rarely can arise due to exposure to prion-infected human tissue"
"Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) presents as rapidly::speed progressive dementia with ataxia and myoclonus"
"What movement disorder is associated with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease? Myoclonus (\startle myoclonus\\")\""
"Which movement disorder presents as a sudden, brief, uncontrolled muscle contraction? Myoclonus"
"Myoclonus is a movement disorder common in metabolic abnormalities, such as renal and liver failure"
"Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is characterized by periodic sharp wave complexes on EEG"
"What is the prognosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease? Poor; usually fatal in < 1 year"
"Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) is a special form of disease that is related to exposure to bovine spongiform encephalopathy"
"Familial fatal insomnia is an inherited form a prion disease characterized by severe insomnia and an exaggerated startle response"
"What percent of CNS tumors are from metastasis? 50% (50% primary)"
"Metastatic CNS tumors characteristically present as multiple, well-circumscribed lesions at the gray-white junction"
"Cancer of what organ most commonly metastasizes to the brain? Lung"
"In adults, primary CNS tumors are usually supra-tentorial"
"In children, primary CNS tumors are usually infra-tentorial"
"Do primary malignant CNS tumors typically metastasize? No"
"Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a(n) malignant::benign or malignant, high-grade tumor of astrocytes"
"What is the most common primary malignant CNS tumor in adults? Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)"
"Glioblastoma multiforme is a CNS tumor that usually arises in the cerebral hemispheres and characteristically crosses the corpus callosum (\butterfly glioma\\")\""
"Glioblastoma multiforme is characterized histologically by \pseudo-palisading\\" tumor cells"
"Which CNS tumor is characterized by histologically by \pseudopalisading\\"? Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)\""
"Glioblastoma multiforme is characterized by endothelial::type-not astrocyte cell proliferation"
"The tumor cells of glioblastoma multiforme stain positive for GFAP"
"What is the prognosis of glioblastoma multiforme? Poor; 1-year median survival"
"Meningioma is a(n) benign::benign or malignant tumor of arachnoid cells::specific"
"What is the most common primary benign CNS tumor in adults? Meningioma"
"What gender is more commonly affected by meningioma? Women"
"What receptor is expressed by meningiomas? Progesterone receptors"
"Meningiomas are often asymptomatic but may present with seizures or focal neurologic signs"
"Do meningiomas typically invade the cortex? No (external to brain parenchyma)"
"Meningiomas are characterized histologically by spindle cells concentrically arranged in a(n) whorled pattern"
"Meningiomas are characterized histologically by presence of psammoma bodies"
"Which CNS tumor is characterized histologically by a whorled pattern +/- psammoma bodies? Meningioma"
"Meningiomas most often occur near surfaces of the brain, especially parasagittal regions"
"Imaging of meningioma (CNS tumor) reveals a round mass attached to the dura (via a \tail\\")\""
"Meningiomas are treated with resection and/or radiosurgery"
"Schwannoma is a(n) benign::benign or malignant tumor of Schwann cells"
"Is Schwannoma typically seen in adults or children? Adults"
"Schwannomas classically arise at the cerebellopontine angle"
"Schwannomas most frequently involve CN VIII, but can involve any cranial or spinal nerve"
"The tumor cells of a Schwannoma stain positive for S-100"
"Bilateral vestibular schwannomas are seen in neurofibromatosis 2 (NF-2)"
"Schwannomas are treated with resection and/or stereotactic radiosurgery"
"Oligodendroglioma is a(n) malignant::benign or malignant tumor of oligodendrocytes"
"Imaging of oligodendroglioma typically reveals a(n) calcified tumor in the white matter, usually involving the frontal lobe"
"Oligodendroglioma may present with seizures"
"Oligodendroglioma is a primary CNS tumor characterized histologically by \fried egg\\" cells with a \\"chicken-wire\\" capillary pattern\""
"Pilocytic astrocytoma is a(n) benign::benign or malignant, well-circumscribed tumor of astrocytes"
"What is the most common primary CNS tumor in children? Pilocytic astrocytoma"
"Pilocytic astrocytomas are most often found in the posterior fossa, such as the cerebellum; may be supratentorial"
"Imaging of pilocytic astrocytomas::CNS tumor reveal a(n) cystic lesion with a mural nodule"
"Biopsy of a(n) pilocytic astrocytoma shows Rosenthal fibers, which are eosinophilic, corkscrew fibers"
"The tumor cells of pilocytic astrocytomas stain positive for GFAP"
"What is the prognosis of pilocytic astrocytoma? Good"
"Medulloblastoma is a(n) malignant::benign or malignant tumor derived from granule cells of the cerebellum"
"Medulloblastoma is a form of primitive neuroectodermal tumor (embryonic tissue origin)"
"Is medulloblastoma typically seen in adults or children? Children"
"Medulloblastoma is characterized histologically by small blue::color cells with Homer-Wright rosettes"
"What primary CNS tumor is associated with Homer-Wright rosettes? Medulloblastoma"
"Medulloblastoma can compress the 4th ventricle, causing noncommunicating hydrocephalus"
"Medulloblastomas grow rapidly and spread via CSF"
"Metastasis of medulloblastomas to the spinal cord is termed \drop metastasis\\"\""
"What is the prognosis of medulloblastoma? Poor"
"Ependymoma is a(n) malignant::benign or malignant tumor of ependymal cells"
"Is ependymoma typically seen in adults or children? Children"
"Ependymomas most commonly arise in the 4th ventricle"
"Ependymomas may present with hydrocephalus"
"Ependymomas are CNS tumors characterized histologically by perivascular pseudorosettes"
"Which CNS tumor may have rod-shaped blepharoblasts (basal ciliary bodies) found near the nucleus? Ependymoma"
"What is the prognosis of ependymoma? Poor"
"Craniopharyngioma is a CNS tumor that arises from epithelial remnants of Rathke's pouch (oral ectoderm)"
"Craniopharyngioma is the most common childhood supra-tentorial tumor"
"Craniopharyngioma typically presents as a(n) supra-tentorial mass in a(n) child or young adult::age group"
"Which CNS tumor compresses the optic chiasm, causing bitemporal hemianopsia, in children? Craniopharyngioma"
"Which CNS tumor is characterized by cholesterol crystals found in \motor-oil\\"-like fluid within the tumor? Craniopharyngioma\""
"Craniopharyngiomas commonly calcify, which is visible on imaging and histology"
"Are craniopharyngiomas benign or malignant? Benign"
"Craniopharyngiomas tend to recur after resection"
"The innermost layer of the gut wall is the mucosa"
"The mucosa of the gut wall consists of three layers: a(n) epithelium, lamina propria, and muscularis mucosa"
"External to the mucosal layer of the gut wall is the submucosa"
"External to the submucosal layer of the gut wall is the muscularis externa"
"The muscularis externa of the gut wall consists of an inner circular and an outer longitudinal muscle layer"
"The myenteric (Auerbach) nerve plexus lies between the circular and longitudinal muscles layers of the gut wall"
"The submucosal (Meissner) nerve plexus lies between the submucosa and inner circular muscle layer of the gut wall"
"The outermost layer of the gut wall is the serosa (when intraperitoneal)"
"The outermost layer of the gut wall is the adventitia (when retroperitoneal)"
"Which gut wall layer contains Meissner's plexus? Submucosa"
"Which gut wall layer contains Auerbach's plexus? Muscularis externa"
"The parasympathetic nervous system is usually excitatory on functions of the GI tract"
"Which nerves carry parasympathetics to the GI tract? Vagus, Pelvic splanchnic::2"
"Reflexes in which both afferent and efferent pathways are contained in the vagus nerve are called vagovagal reflexes"
"The sympathetic nervous system is usually inhibitory on functions of the GI tract"
"Post-ganglionic sympathetic and Pre-ganglionic parasympathetic neurons supplying the GI tract synapse in the myenteric or submucosal plexuses"
"The enteric nervous system can direct all functions of the GI tract, even in the absence of extrinsic innervation (e.g. PNS/SNS)"
"The submucosal (Meissner's) plexus of the gut wall primarily controls secretion and blood flow"
"The myenteric (Auerbach) plexus of the gut wall primarily controls motility"
"Gastrin is secreted from G cells in the antrum of the stomach and the duodenum"
"One function of gastrin is to increase gastric H+ secretion"
"One function of gastrin is to increase growth of gastric mucosa and parietal cells"
"One function of gastrin is to increase gastric motility"
"Gastrin secretion is most stimulated by stomach distention"
"Gastrin secretion is stimulated by high pH of gastric contents"
"Gastrin secretion is stimulated by vagal stimulation via the neuropeptide gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP, bombesin)"
"Is the vagal stimulation of G cells (gastrin secretion) inhibited by atropine? No"
"Which nutrient stimulates gastrin secretion? Protein (amino acids)::glucose, fat, protein"
"Of the amino acids, phenylalanine and tryptophan are the most potent stimuli for gastrin secretion"
"Gastrin secretion is inhibited by low pH of gastric contents"
"Gastrin secretion is inhibited by somatostatin"
"The minimum fragment necessary for biologic activity of gastrin is the C-terminal tetrapeptide"
"How does gastrin secretion change with chronic PPI use? Increased"
"How does gastrin secretion change with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome? Very increased"
"Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is caused by a(n) gastrinoma of the pancreas (non-β cells) or duodenum"
"Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is characterized by acid hypersecretion, causing recurrent ulcers in the duodenum and jejunum"
"Zollinger-Ellison syndrome may present with abdominal pain, due to peptic ulcer disease and distal ulcers"
"Zollinger-Ellison syndrome may present with steatorrhea due to inactivation of pancreatic lipases"
"Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is diagnosed with a positive secretin stimulation test"
"A secretin stimulation test is positive if gastrin levels increase after administration of secretin"
"What endocrine disorder may be associated with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome? MEN 1"
"Cholecystokinin (CCK) is secreted from I cells in the duodenum and the jejunum"
"One function of cholecystokinin is to increase secretion of pancreatic enzymes"
"One function of cholecystokinin is to increase contraction of the gallbladder"
"One function of cholecystokinin is to increase relaxation of the sphincter of Oddi"
"One function of cholecystokinin is to decrease gastric emptying"
"One function of cholecystokinin is to potentiate the effects of secretin on HCO3- secretion"
"Cholecystokinin secretion is stimulated by fatty acids and amino acids"
"Which cholecystokinin receptor is selective for CCK? CCKA"
"Which cholecystokinin receptor is equally sensitive to gastrin and CCK? CCKB"
"The minimum fragment necessary for biologic activity of cholecystokinin (CCK) is the C-terminal heptapeptide"
"Secretin is secreted from S cells in the duodenum"
"One function of secretin is to increase secretion of pancreatic HCO3-"
"One function of secretin is to increase bile secretion"
"One function of secretin is to decrease gastric acid secretion and increase pyloric sphincter contraction"
"Secretin is secreted in response to H+ and fatty acids in the lumen of the duodenum"
"Glucose-insulinotropic peptide (GIP) is secreted from K cells in the duodenum and jejunum"
"Which nutrient stimulates glucose-insulinotropic peptide secretion? All three :)::glucose, fat, protein"
"Glucose-insulinotropic peptide causes increased release of insulin in response to a(n) oral glucose load (endocrine effect)"
"The oral::oral or IV? form of glucose administration leads to greater insulin release due to stimulation of GIP and GLP-1 secretion"
"Glucose-insulinotropic peptide decreases gastric H+ secretion (exocrine effect)"
"Motilin is secreted from the small intestine during fasting::fed or fasting states"
"Motilin is a hormone that initiates migrating motor complexes (MMCs) at 90-minute intervals between meals"
"Motilin receptor agonists, such as erythromycin, are used to stimulate intestinal peristalsis"
"Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) stimulates insulin secretion and inhibits glucagon secretion"
"Somatostatin is secreted from D cells in the GI mucosa"
"Somatostatin secretion is stimulated by low::high or low pH in the GI mucosa"
"Somatostatin secretion is decreased in response to vagal stimulation"
"What effect does somatostatin have on gastric acid secretion? Decreased secretion"
"What effect does somatostatin have on pancreatic/small intestinal fluid secretion? Decreased secretion"
"What effect does somatostatin have on gallbladder contraction? Decreased contraction"
"What effect does somatostatin have on insulin and glucagon secretion? Decreased secretion"
"Ghrelin is secreted by gastric cells and acts to increase appetite"
"Ghrelin is secreted from the stomach during fasting::fed or fasting states"
"Prader-Willi syndrome is characterized by increased levels of ghrelin"
"Ghrelin levels decrease after gastric bypass surgery"
"Leptin is secreted by fat cells and acts to decrease appetite"
"Peptide YY (PYY) is secreted by intestinal L cells and acts to decrease appetite"
"Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is secreted from parasympathetic neurons in the gallbladder, small intestine, and sphincters"
"Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) causes relaxation of GI smooth muscle and sphincters (including LES)"
"Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) causes increased intestinal H2O and electrolyte secretion"
"Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) secretion is increased in response to distention and vagal stimulation"
"Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) secretion is decreased in response to adrenergic input"
"VIPoma is a non-α, non-β, non-δ islet cell pancreatic tumor that secretes VIP (also known as WDHA syndrome)"
"VIPoma is characterized by a triad of watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, and achlorhydria"
"Phasic contractions of GI smooth muscle are periodic contractions followed by relaxation"
"Tonic contractions of GI smooth muscle maintain a constant level of contraction without regular periods of relaxation"
"Slow waves are oscillating membrane potentials inherent to the smooth muscle cells of some parts of the GI tract"
"The frequency of slow waves in the stomach is 3 waves/minute"
"The frequency of slow waves in the duodenum is 12 waves/minute"
"The frequency of slow waves in the ileum is 8 - 9 waves/minute"
"Which portion of the GI tract has the lowest rate of slow waves? Stomach (3 waves/min)"
"Which portion of the GI tract has the highest rate of slow waves? Duodenum (12 waves/min)"
"Slow waves originate in the interstitial cells of Cajal, which serve as the pacemaker for GI smooth muscle"
"Slow waves of the GI tract are produced via cyclic opening of Ca2+ channels (depolarization), followed by opening of K+ channels (repolarization)"
"During swallowing, the soft palate is pulled upward, preventing food from entering the nasopharynx"
"During swallowing, the epiglottis moves to cover the larynx, preventing food from entering the trachea"
"The pharynx and upper third of the esophagus are composed of striated muscle"
"The lower two-thirds of the esophagus are composed of smooth muscle"
"The upper esophageal sphincter prevents air from entering the esophagus"
"The lower esophageal sphincter prevents gastric contents from entering the esophagus"
"What neurotransmitter mediates relaxation of the lower esophageal sphincter in response to swallowing? VIP"
"As the lower esophageal sphincter relaxes, the orad stomach also relaxes, a phenomenon known as receptive relaxation"
"The orad region of the stomach is thin-walled and includes the fundus and proximal body"
"The caudad region of the stomach is thick-walled and includes the distal body and antrum"
"Which region of the stomach (orad or caudad) is responsible for the strong contractions that mix food with gastric secretions? Caudad"
"The rate of gastric emptying is decreased primarily by fats and H+ in the duodenum"
"The function of the small intestine is digestion and absorption of nutrients"
"Segmentation contractions serve to mix intestinal contents; \back-and-forth movement\\"\""
"Peristaltic contractions are designed to propel the chyme along the small intestine towards the large intestine"
"Intestinal peristalsis occurs in response to binding of 5-HT (serotonin) to intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs)"
"The gastrocolic reflex refers to an increase in mass movements due to the presence of food in the stomach"
"Saliva is formed by three major glands: parotid, submandibular, and sublingual"
"The acinar cells of salivary glands secrete the initial saliva, which is iso-tonic and in similar composition to plasma"
"The ductal cells modify the initial saliva via absorption of Na+ and Cl-"
"The ductal cells modify the initial saliva via secretion of K+ and HCO3-"
"Saliva is characterized by high K+ and HCO3- concentration relative to plasma"
"Saliva is characterized by low Na+ and Cl- concentration relative to plasma"
"Saliva is hypo-tonic relative to plasma"
"What salivary enzyme begins the initial digestion of carbohydrates? α-amylase"
"What salivary enzyme begins the initial digestion of fats? Lingual lipase"
"What salivary enzyme cleaves kininogen into bradykinin, a potent vasodilator? Kallikrein"
"At the highest flow rates, saliva is most similar to plasma (high Na+ and Cl-, low K+)"
"At the lowest flow rates, saliva is most dissimilar to plasma (high K+, low Na+ and Cl-)"
"The levels of salivary HCO3- increase with increased flow rate"
"What is the effect of parasympathetic innervation on salivary secretion? Increased secretion"
"What is the effect of sympathetic innervation on salivary secretion? Increased secretion"
"Parietal cells are located in the body of the stomach and secrete HCl and intrinsic factor"
"Chief cells are located in the body of the stomach and secrete pepsinogen *bonus: also secretes..."
"Pepsinogen (inactive) is converted into pepsin (active) in the presence of H+"
"In the first step of gastric acid secretion, CO2 and H2O combine to form H2CO3 via the enzyme carbonic anhydrase"
"The H+ from H2CO3 is secreted from the parietal cell via the H+-K+ ATPase pump"
"Cl- in the parietal cell follows H+ into the lumen by diffusing through Cl- channels"
"The HCO3- from H2CO3 is absorbed from the parietal cell into the blood via the Cl--HCO3- exchanger"
"The increased blood pH following gastric acid secretion is referred to as the \alkaline tide\\" (e.g. after meals"
"Histamine is released from enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells in the gastric mucosa"
"Histamine binds to H2 receptors on parietal cells, causing increased H+ secretion"
"Vagal stimulation increases H+ secretion directly via binding of acetylcholine to M3 receptors on parietal cells"
"Vagal stimulation increases H+ secretion indirectly via binding of GRP to G cells"
"Gastrin increases H+ secretion directly via binding to CCKB receptors on parietal cells"
"Gastrin increases H+ secretion indirectly by causing histamine release from ECL cells"
"Gastrin increases acid secretion primarily through its effects on ECL::parietal or ECL cells"
"What type of signaling mechanism does gastrin use to reach parietal cells? Endocrine (enters systemic circulation)::endocrine or paracrine"
"What type of signaling mechanism does histamine use to reach parietal cells? Paracrine (locally diffuses)::endocrine or paracrine"
"Which second messenger is released upon binding of gastrin to CCKB receptors? IP3/Ca2+"
"Which second messenger is increased upon binding of histamine to H2 receptors? cAMP"
"The cephalic phase of gastric HCl secretion accounts for 30% of total HCl secreted"
"Gastric HCl secretion during the cephalic phase is mediated by vagal stimulation only"
"The gastric phase of gastric HCl secretion accounts for 60% of total HCl secreted"
"Gastric HCl secretion during the gastric phase is mediated by both vagal stimulation and direct gastrin release"
"What effect does alcohol and caffeine have on gastric HCl secretion? Increased secretion"
"Somatostatin decreases gastric acid secretion by decreasing levels of cAMP::second messenger"
"What effect do prostaglandins have on gastric acid secretion? Decreased secretion"
"Prostaglandins decrease gastric acid secretion by decreasing levels of cAMP (second messenger)"
"Pepsinogen is secreted in response to vagal stimulation and local H+"
"What is the only essential secretion of the stomach? Intrinsic factor"
"Mucus is secreted into the GI tract via mucous cells in the stomach, duodenum, salivary glands, and pancreas"
"Mucus is secreted into the GI tract via Brunner glands in the duodenum"
"The mucus that covers the gastric epithelium traps HCO3-, thus neutralizing any HCl that penetrates the mucus barrier"
"Are the concentrations of Na+ and K+ in pancreatic secretions similar or dissimilar to plasma? Similar"
"Pancreatic secretions are iso-tonic relative to plasma, regardless of flow rate"
"At low flow rates, the pancreatic secretions have high Cl- concentration"
"At high flow rates, the pancreatic secretions have high HCO3- concentration"
"The enzymatic component of pancreatic secretion is secreted by acinar cells"
"The aqueous component of pancreatic secretion is secreted by ductal and centroacinar cells"
"The ductal cells modify the initial pancreatic secretion via absorption of Cl-"
"The ductal cells modify the initial pancreatic secretion via secretion of HCO3-"
"What is the effect of parasympathetic innervation on pancreatic secretion? Increased secretion"
"What is the effect of sympathetic innervation on pancreatic secretion? Decreased secretion"
"Release of the aqueous (HCO3-) component of pancreatic secretion is primarily stimulated by secretin"
"Which second messenger is released upon binding of secretin to its receptor? cAMP"
"Release of the enzymatic component of pancreatic secretion is primarily stimulated by cholecystokinin (CCK)"
"Which second messenger is released upon binding of cholecystokinin to CCKA receptors? IP3/Ca2+"
"Bile is composed of bile salts, phospholipids, cholesterol, bilirubin, water, and ions"
"One component of bile is bilirubin, which is the major bile pigment"
"In the liver, bile acids are conjugated to the amino acids glycine or taurine to form bile salts"
"What is the purpose of conjugating bile acids in the liver? Increase water solubility"
"The bile salts and phospholipids in bile are amphipathic molecules, which allows for the emulsification and solubilization of lipids in an aqueous environment"
"Which organ is responsible for synthesis of bile? Liver"
"Which organ is responsible for the storage and concentration of bile? Gallbladder"
"Which hormone provides the major stimulus for bile ejection? Cholecystokinin (CCK)"
"Most of the secreted bile salts are recirculated to the liver via enterohepatic circulation"
"Which portion of the small intestine is responsible for absorption of bile salts? Terminal ileum"
"What is the rate-limiting enzyme for bile acid synthesis? 7α-hydroxylase"
"7α-hydroxylase is regulated via negative feedback by bile salts"
"One function of bile is to aid in the digestion and absorption of lipids"
"One function of bile is excretion of cholesterol"
"One function of bile is anti-microbial activity via membrane disruption"
"What is the only type of carbohydrate that can be absorbed by enterocytes? Monosaccharides"
"Pancreatic and salivary α-amylases hydrolyze 1,4-glycosidic bonds in starch"
"Lactose is a disaccharide that is digested into glucose and galactose by lactase"
"Sucrose is a disaccharide that is digested into glucose and fructose by sucrase"
"Trehalose is a disaccharide that is digested into glucose and glucose by trehalase"
"Is pancreatic α-amylase secreted in an active or inactive form? Active"
"Glucose and galactose are transported from the intestinal lumen into the cells by Na+-dependent cotransport (SGLT1)"
"Which monosaccharide(s) are absorbed from the intestine by Na+-dependent cotransport (SGLT1)? Glucose and galactose"
"Glucose, galactose and fructose are extruded from the intestinal cell into the blood by GLUT-2 (facilitated diffusion)"
"Which monosaccharide(s) are absorbed from the intestine by GLUT-5? Fructose"
"Fructose is extruded from the intestinal cell into the blood by GLUT-2 (facilitated diffusion)"
"Which monosaccharide(s) are extruded from the intestinal cell into the blood by GLUT-2? Glucose, galactose, and fructose"
"The D-xylose absorption test helps distinguish GI mucosal damage from other causes of malabsorption (e.g. lactose intolerance)"
"Decreased excretion of urinary D-xylose is indicative of GI mucosal damage or bacterial overgrowth (D-xylose absorption test)"
"Digestion of protein begins in the stomach with the action of pepsin"
"The first step in intestinal protein digestion involves activation of trypsinogen (inactive) to trypsin (active)"
"Trypsinogen is converted to trypsin via enteropeptidase (enterokinase), a brush-border enzyme on duodenal and jejunal mucosa"
"Are pancreatic proteases secreted in an active or inactive form? Inactive (proenzymes/zymogens)"
"Which pancreatic protease cleaves all pancreatic proenzymes to their active forms? Trypsin"
"Chymotripsinogen (inactive) is activated to chymotrypsin (active) via trypsin"
"Proelastase (inactive) is activated to elastase (active) via trypsin"
"Procarboxypeptidase (inactive) is activated to carboxypeptidase (active) via trypsin"
"Trypsin results in increased::increased or decreased cleavage of trypsinogen to trypsin"
"L-amino acids are transported from the intestinal lumen into the cells by Na+-mediated cotransport"
"Dipeptides and tripeptides are transported from the intestinal lumen into the cells by H+-mediated cotransport"
"Pancreatic lipases are responsible for fat digestion in the small intestine"
"Pancreatic lipase is inactivated by low::high or low duodenal pH"
"The hydrophobic products of lipid digestion are solubilized in micelles by bile acids"
"Micelles bring the products of lipid digestion into contact with the intestinal brush border, where the lipid products diffuse across the luminal membrane"
"Inside intestinal epithelial cells, the products of lipid digestion are re-esterified to reform the ingested lipid"
"Inside the intestinal epithelial cells, re-esterified lipids are packaged with apoproteins into chylomicrons"
"The chylomicrons in intestinal epithelial cells enter lymphatic capillaries known as lacteals"
"The chylomicrons in the lymphatic capillaries enter the bloodstream via the thoracic duct"
"Iron is absorbed in the Fe2+ state in the duodenum of the small intestine"
"Folate is primarily absorbed in the jejunum of the small intestine"
"Vitamin B12 is absorbed in the terminal ileum of the small intestine (requires intrinsic factor)"
"K+ is absorbed in the small intestine via passive diffusion"
"K+ is actively secreted in the large intestine"
"How does increased flow rate (e.g. diarrhea) affect K+ secretion in the colon? Increased secretion"
"What second messenger regulates the Cl- channels in the luminal membrane of the intestine? cAMP"
"In multiple myeloma, neoplastic plasma cells produce IL-6 which stimulates osteoclast activating factor"
"Aphthous ulcers (\canker sores\\") are painful"
"Aphthous ulcers arise in relation to stress and resolve spontaneously, however they often recur"
"Aphthous ulcers are characterized by a(n) grayish::color base surrounded by erythema"
"Behçet syndrome is characterized by a triad of recurrent aphthous ulcers with genital ulcers and uveitis"
"Behçet syndrome occurs due to immune-complex vasculitis involving primarily small vessels"
"Behçet syndrome can be seen after viral infection, but the etiology is unknown"
"Oral herpes (\cold sores\\") is characterized by painful"
"Oral herpes is usually due to HSV-1 infection"
"The HSV-1 virus that causes oral herpes remains dormant in the ganglia of the trigeminal nerve"
"Dormant HSV-1 virus may be reactivated by stress and sunlight, leading to an episode of oral herpes"
"The major risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma of the oral mucosa are alcohol and tobacco"
"What is the most common location for oral squamous cell carcinoma? Floor of the mouth"
"Oral leukoplakia and erythroplakia are precursor lesions to squamous cell carcinoma"
"Oral leukoplakia is a white deposit on the tongue that cannot be easily scraped away"
"Oral candidiasis is a white deposit on the tongue that can be easily scraped away"
"Hairy leukoplakia is a white, rough patch that arises on the lateral tongue"
"Hairy leukoplakia is a squamous cell hyperplasia (not dysplasia) induced by EBV infection"
"Is hairy leukoplakia pre-malignant for oral squamous cell carcinoma? No"
"Oral candidiasis and hairy leukoplakia are usually seen in immunocompromised individuals"
"Oral erythroplakia is a red plaque due to vascularization of leukoplakia"
"Erythroplakia is highly suggestive of squamous cell dysplasia::hyperplasia or dysplasia"
"Which lesion, leukoplakia or erythroplakia, is more suggestive of squamous cell dysplasia? Erythroplakia"
"What virus is associated with bilateral inflammation of the parotid glands? Mumps virus"
"In addition to parotitis, mumps may also present with orchitis, pancreatitis, and aseptic meningitis"
"What enzyme is elevated in mumps patients due to involvement of the pancreatic or salivary glands? α-amylase"
"Orchitis due to mumps infection carries risk of sterility, especially in teenagers"
"Sialadenitis is inflammation of a salivary gland"
"Sialadenitis most commonly occurs due to sialolithiasis, which often leads to Staphylococcus aureus mediated sialadenitis / parotitis"
"Is Warthin tumor typically unilateral or bilateral? Unilateral"
"Salivary gland tumors are most commonly benign::benign or malignant"
"Salivary gland tumors most commonly arise in the parotid gland"
"If a salivary gland tumor involves a non-parotid gland it is more likely to be malignant::benign or malignant"
"Salivary gland tumors typically present as a mobile, painless::painful or painless mass/swelling at the angle of the jaw"
"What is the most common salivary gland tumor? Pleomorphic adenoma"
"Pleomorphic adenoma is a salivary gland tumor composed of chondromyxoid stroma and epithelium"
"Is pleomorphic adenoma a benign or malignant salivary gland tumor? Benign"
"Pleomorphic adenoma is associated with a high rate of recurrence due to incomplete resection or intraoperative rupture"
"Which salivary gland tumor is associated with a high rate of recurrence following resection? Pleomorphic adenoma"
"Warthin tumor is a cystic salivary gland tumor with abundant lymphocytes and germinal centers"
"Is Warthin tumor typically a benign or malignant salivary gland tumor? Benign"
"Mucoepidermoid carcinoma is a malignant salivary gland tumor composed of mucinous and squamous cells"
"What is the most common malignant salivary gland tumor? Mucoepidermoid carcinoma"
"Malignant salivary gland tumors present with signs of facial nerve damage"
"Tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) is a congenital defect resulting in a connection between the esophagus and trachea"
"The most common tracheoesophageal anomaly (85%) is proximal esophageal atresia with distal tracheoesophageal fistula"
"Esophageal atresia with distal TEF presents with polyhydramnios in utero"
"Esophageal atresia with distal TEF presents as drooling, choking, and vomiting with the first feeding"
"Esophageal atresia with distal TEF may present with abdominal distention due to air in the stomach (visible on CXR)"
"Esophageal atresia with distal TEF may present with cyanosis, secondary to laryngospasm to avoid aspiration"
"Esophageal atresia with distal TEF is characterized by failure to pass a(n) nasogastric tube into the stomach"
"Which tracheoesophageal anomaly resembles the letter H? Pure TEF (\H-type\\")\""
"Which tracheoesophageal anomaly is associated with a gasless abdomen on CXR? Pure esophageal atresia"
"Esophageal web is a thin protrusion of esophageal mucosa, most often in the upper esophagus"
"Esophageal web presents with dysphagia for poorly chewed food"
"Plummer-Vinson syndrome is characterized by a triad of iron deficiency anemia, esophageal web, and a beefy-red tongue (atrophic glossitis)"
"Zenker diverticulum is an outpouching of pharyngeal mucosa through an acquired defect in the muscular wall (false diverticulum) caused by cricopharyngeal motor dysfunction"
"Is Zenker diverticulum a true or false diverticulum? False (only involves mucosa and submucosa)"
"Zenker diverticulum classically arises at Killian's triangle, between the thyropharyngeal and cricopharyngeal parts of the inferior pharyngeal constrictor"
"Zenker diverticulum often presents with oropharyngeal dysphagia, obstruction, and halitosis (bad breath)"
"What demographic is most commonly affected by Zenker diverticulum? Elderly males"
"Mallory-Weiss syndrome is a linear mucosal laceration at the gastroesophageal (GE) junction"
"The tears in Mallory-Weiss syndrome are caused by a rapid increase in intraabdominal pressure (ex. retching, vomiting)"
"Mallory-Weiss syndrome is usually seen in alcoholics and bulimics"
"Mallory-Weiss syndrome presents with hematemesis that can be painful"
"Is the hematemesis seen with Mallory-Weiss syndrome typically painful or painless? Painful"
"Boerhaave syndrome is a(n) transmural laceration of the distal esophagus"
"Boerhaave syndrome presents as esophageal rupture with pneumomediastinum (air in the mediastinum) and subcutaneous emphysema"
"Boerhaave syndrome is usually due to violent retching"
"Esophageal varices are dilated submucosal veins in the lower 1/3rd of the esophagus"
"Esophageal varices arise secondary to portal hypertension"
"In portal hypertension, the left gastric vein backs up into the esophageal vein, resulting in varices"
"Esophageal varices may rupture, which presents with painless hematemesis"
"Is the hematemesis seen with esophageal varices typically painful or painless? Painless"
"Esophageal varices are a common cause of death in patients with cirrhosis"
"Achalasia is characterized by disordered esophageal motility due to inability to relax the lower esophageal sphincter"
"Primary achalasia is due to an autoimmune destruction of ganglion cells in the myenteric (Auerbach) plexus"
"Achalasia may be idiopathic or secondary to a known insult, such as Chagas disease and extraesophageal malignancies"
"Does achalasia present with dysphagia for solids or liquids? Both solids and liquids :)"
"Achalasia is characterized by high LES pressure on esophageal manometry"
"Achalasia is characterized by uncoordinated or absent peristalsis in the esophagus"
"Achalasia is characterized by the \Bird's beak\\" sign on barium swallow\""
"Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is caused by reflux of acid from the stomach due to transiently decreased LES tone"
"What type of hernia increases risk of developing GERD? Sliding hiatal hernia"
"Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) often presents with heartburn, which can mimic cardiac chest pain"
"Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may present with chronic cough and adult-onset asthma"
"Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) may damage the enamel of teeth"
"Late complications of GERD include: - Barrett esophagus - ulcerations followed by esophageal strictures"
"Esophageal stricture is a narrowing of the esophagus"
"Esophageal strictures are associated with caustic ingestion and GERD"
"Barrett's esophagus is characterized by specialized intestinal metaplasia of the lower esophageal mucosa"
"In Barrett's esophagus, non-keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is replaced with non-ciliated columnar epithelium with goblet cells (metaplasia)"
"Barrett's esophagus is seen in 10% of patients with GERD"
"Which type of esophageal cancer is associated with obesity, GERD and Barrett's esophagus? Adenocarcinoma::SCC or adenocarcinoma"
"Esophageal carcinoma is subclassified as adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma"
"Adenocarcinoma of the esophagus is a malignant proliferation of glands"
"Adenocarcinoma of the esophagus is the most common type of esophageal carcinoma in America::location"
"Adenocarcinoma of the esophagus most commonly arises from pre-existing Barrett esophagus"
"Which part of the esophagus is typically affected by adenocarcinoma? Lower 1/3rd"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus is a malignant proliferation of squamous cells"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus is the most common type of esophageal carcinoma worldwide::location"
"The most common causes of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus are alcohol and tobacco"
"Which type of esophageal cancer (SCC or adenocarcinoma) is associated with esophageal web (e.g. Plummer-Vinson syndrome)? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Which type of esophageal cancer (SCC or adenocarcinoma) is associated with achalasia? Both :)"
"Which type of esophageal cancer (SCC or adenocarcinoma) is associated with very hot tea? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Which type of esophageal cancer (SCC or adenocarcinoma) is associated with esophageal injury (e.g. lye/caustic ingestion)? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Which part of the esophagus is typically affected by squamous cell carcinoma? Upper 2/3rds"
"What is the prognosis of esophageal carcinoma? Poor (presents late)"
"Symptoms of esophageal carcinoma include progressive dysphagia (solids to liquids), weight loss, pain, and hematemesis"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus may present with hoarseness due to involvement of the recurrent laryngeal nerve"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus may present with cough due to tracheal involvement"
"Esophageal carcinoma in the upper third of the esophagus spreads to cervical lymph nodes"
"Esophageal carcinoma in the middle third of the esophagus spreads to mediastinal, tracheobronchial, or paratracheal lymph nodes"
"Esophageal carcinoma in the lower third of the esophagus spreads to celiac or gastric lymph nodes"
"Barrett esophagus is characterized by extension of the squamocolumnar junction (Z-line) into the esophageal mucosa"
"Eosinophilic esophagitis is characterized by eosinophilic infiltration of the esophagus, often in atopic patients"
"Eosinophilic esophagitis presents with esophageal rings and linear furrows, often seen on endoscopy"
"Eosinophilic esophagitis classically presents with dysphagia and food impaction in response to food allergens"
"Does eosinophilic esophagitis respond to GERD therapy (e.g. PPIs)? No"
"What infectious cause of esophagitis presents as punched-out ulcers? HSV-1"
"What infectious cause of esophagitis presents as linear ulcers? CMV"
"What infectious cause of esophagitis presents as white pseudomembranes? Candida"
"Infectious esophagitis is typically seen in immunocompromised patients"
"What connective tissue disease is associated with esophageal dysmotility? Scleroderma"
"Sclerodermal esophageal dysmotility is characterized by low LES pressure on esophageal manometry"
"The low LES pressure in scleroderma predisposes to acid reflux and dysphagia"
"Gastroschisis is a congenital malformation characterized by extrusion of abdominal contents through the anterior abdominal wall"
"Which congenital abdominal wall defect IS NOT covered by peritoneum? Gastroschisis"
"Omphalocele is a persistent herniation of bowel into umbilical cord"
"Omphalocele is caused by failure of the herniated intestines to return to the body cavity during embryologic development"
"Which congenital abdominal wall defect IS covered by peritoneum? Omphalocele"
"Gastroschisis and omphalocele occur due to failure of lateral fold closure of the anterior abdominal wall"
"Sternal defects occur due to failure of rostral fold closure of the anterior abdominal wall"
"Bladder exstrophy occurs due to failure of caudal fold closure of the anterior abdominal wall"
"Pyloric stenosis is a congenital hypertrophy of the pyloric smooth muscle"
"What is the most common cause of gastric outlet obstruction in infants? Pyloric stenosis (1:600)"
"What demographic is associated with pyloric stenosis? First-born males"
"How soon after birth does pyloric stenosis typically present? ~ 2 - 6 weeks"
"Pyloric stenosis typically presents with nonbilious::bilious or nonbilious, projectile vomiting"
"Pyloric stenosis often presents with a palpable \olive-like\\" mass in the epigastric region of the abdomen\""
"Pyloric stenosis may present with visible peristalsis"
"What drug class is associated with pyloric stenosis? Macrolides (antibiotics)"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with pyloric stenosis? Hypokalemic, hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis"
"What is the treatment for pyloric stenosis? Surgical excision (pyloromyotomy)"
"Acute gastritis occurs due to acidic damage to the stomach mucosa"
"Acute gastritis arises due to imbalance between mucosal defenses and acidic environment"
"Mucosal defenses include secretion of mucus, HCO3-, prostaglandins, and normal blood supply"
"Mucosal defenses include normal blood supply, which provides nutrients and picks up leaked acids"
"Acute gastritis may arise with severe burns due to hypovolemia, which causes mucosal ischemia"
"What type of gastric ulcer is caused by severe burns? Curling ulcer"
"Acute gastritis may arise with NSAID use due to decreased PGE2"
"Acute gastritis may arise with increased ICP, which to increases vagal stimulation, which increases H+ production"
"What type of gastric ulcer is caused by increased intracranial pressure? Cushing ulcer"
"Acute gastritis may arise with shock, which presents as multiple stress ulcers secondary to ischemia"
"Acute gastritis is especially common among alcoholics and patients taking daily NSAIDs (e.g. rheumatoid arthritis patients)"
"Gastric erosions::erosions or ulcers involves loss of the mucosal layer only"
"Gastric ulcers::erosions or ulcers may extend into and beyond the submucosa"
"Chronic gastritis occurs due to chronic inflammation of the stomach mucosa"
"Chronic gastritis is associated with atrophy::hypertrophy or atrophy of the gastric mucosa"
"Chronic gastritis is associated with intestinal metaplasia"
"What is the effect of chronic gastritis on gastric HCl secretion? Decreased (achlorhydria or hypochlorhydria)"
"What is the effect of chronic gastritis on gastrin secretion? Increased (hypergastrinemia)"
"Chronic gastritis is divided into two types based on etiology: autoimmune and H. pylori gastritis"
"Chronic autoimmune gastritis is also referred to as type A gastritis"
"Chronic H. pylori gastritis is also referred to as type B gastritis"
"Chronic autoimmune gastritis is due to autoimmune destruction of parietal cells"
"Which areas of the stomach are affected in chronic autoimmune gastritis? body and fundus"
"Chronic autoimmune gastritis is associated with antibodies against parietal cells and/or intrinsic factor"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is chronic autoimmune gastritis? Type IV (T-cell mediated)"
"Chronic autoimmune gastritis is associated with increased risk for pernicious anemia"
"What is the most common (90%) form of chronic gastritis? Chronic H. pylori gastritis"
"Which area of the stomach is initially affected by chronic H. pylori gastritis? Antrum"
"Does H. pylori invade the stomach mucosa? No (sits on top of mucosa)"
"Chronic H. pylori gastritis causes increased risk for peptic ulcer disease"
"Chronic H. pylori gastritis causes increased risk for MALT lymphoma"
"What cytotoxin released by H. pylori breaks down the protective mucus barrier? CagA toxin"
"H. pylori produces urease, which alkalinizes the local environment, enabling bacterial survival"
"H. pylori infection may be diagnosed using the urea breath test"
"Is the intestinal metaplasia seen with H. pylori gastritis reversible? Yes (resolves with treatment of infection)"
"Peptic ulcer disease is a solitary mucosal ulcer involving the proximal duodenum (90%) or distal stomach (10%)"
"Duodenal ulcers are almost always due to H. pylori (~ 90%)"
"Duodenal ulcers rarely may be due to Zollinger-Ellison syndrome"
"Duodenal ulcers present with epigastric pain that improves with meals"
"Duodenal ulcers are diagnosed via endoscopic biopsy, which shows an ulcer with hypertrophy of Brunner glands"
"Duodenal ulcers usually arise in the anterior::anterior or posterior duodenum"
"Duodenal ulcers located in the posterior duodenum may rupture, leading to bleeding from the gastroduodenal artery"
"Gastric ulcers are usually due to H. pylori (~ 70%)"
"Less common causes of gastric ulcers include NSAIDs and bile reflux"
"Gastric ulcers present with epigastric pain that worsens with meals"
"What is the most common location for a gastric ulcer? Lesser curvature of stomach"
"Gastric ulcers on the lesser curvature of the stomach may rupture, leading to bleeding from the left gastric artery"
"Which type of ulcer (gastric or duodenal) is more likely to be malignant? Gastric"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant gastric ulcers are usually small (< 3 cm), sharply demarcated (\punched-out\\")"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant gastric ulcers are usually large and irregular with heaped up margins"
"Gastric::gastric or duodenal ulcers should be biopsied at the margins to rule out malignancy"
"What is the most common ulcer complication (both gastric and duodenal)? Hemorrhage"
"Which type of duodenal ulcer is more commonly associated with hemorrhage? Posterior::anterior or posterior"
"One possible ulcer complication is obstruction of the pyloric channel or duodenum"
"Which type of duodenal ulcer is more commonly associated with perforation? Anterior::anterior or posterior"
"Perforation of an anterior duodenal ulcer is characterized by free air under the diaphragm (pneumoperitoneum)"
"Perforation of an anterior duodenal ulcer may present with referred pain to the shoulder via the phrenic nerve"
"What is the most common classification of gastric carcinoma (e.g. SCC, lymphoma, adenocarcinoma, etc.)? Adenocarcinoma"
"Gastric carcinoma is subclassified into intestinal and diffuse types"
"Which type of gastric carcinoma (intestinal or diffuse) is more common? Intestinal"
"The intestinal type of gastric carcinoma most commonly arises on the lesser curvature of the antrum"
"Which type of gastric carcinoma (intestinal or diffuse) is associated with H. pylori infection? Intestinal"
"Which type of gastric carcinoma (diffuse or intestinal) is associated with chronic gastritis? Intestinal"
"The intestinal type of gastric carcinoma is associated with nitrosamines, which are found in smoked foods (common in Japan)"
"The intestinal type of gastric carcinoma is associated with blood type A"
"The diffuse type of gastric carcinoma is characterized by signet ring cells that infiltrate the gastric wall"
"The diffuse type of gastric carcinoma may cause linitis plastica, which is a grossly thickened and leathery stomach wall"
"Gastric carcinoma typically presents late::timing with weight loss, early satiety, abdominal pain, and anemia"
"Gastric adenocarcinoma rarely may present with acanthosis nigricans, which is hyperpigmented velvety plaques in the axilla and neck"
"Gastric adenocarcinoma rarely may present with the Leser-Trélat sign, which is sudden onset of multiple seborrheic keratoses"
"Gastric carcinoma may spread and involve the left supraclavicular node, also known as Virchow's node"
"Distant metastasis of gastric adenocarcinoma most commonly involves the liver"
"Gastric carcinoma may spread and involve the periumbilical region, also known as a(n) Sister Mary Joseph nodule"
"Which type of gastric carcinoma (diffuse or intestinal) is associated with a Sister Mary Joseph nodule? Intestinal"
"Gastric carcinoma may spread and involve the bilateral ovaries, also known as a(n) Krukenberg tumor"
"Which type of gastric carcinoma (diffuse or intestinal) is associated with Krukenberg tumor? Diffuse"
"Ménétrier disease is characterized by hyperplasia of the gastric mucosa and atrophy of the parietal / chief cells"
"Ménétrier disease is characterized by hypertrophied gastric rugae that resemble brain gyri"
"Ménétrier disease is characterized by excess mucus production with resultant protein loss, leading to edema"
"Ménétrier disease is characterized by parietal cell atrophy with decreased acid production"
"Does ménétrier disease increase risk for gastric cancer? Yes (pre-cancerous lesion)"
"Intestinal atresia presents with abdominal distention and bilious::bilious or nonbilious vomiting"
"How soon after birth does intestinal atresia typically present? ~ 1 - 2 days"
"Duodenal atresia is a congenital failure of the duodenum to canalize"
"Duodenal atresia is associated with Down syndrome"
"Duodenal atresia presents with polyhydramnios in utero"
"Duodenal atresia is characterized by dilation of the stomach and proximal duodenum with a \double bubble\\" sign on X-ray\""
"Jejunal and ileal atresia occur due to disruption of mesenteric vessels during development, which causes ischemic necrosis and segmental resorption"
"Jejunal and ileal atresia are associated with an \apple peel\\" appearance of the bowel\""
"Meckel diverticulum is an outpouching of all three layers of the bowel wall (true diverticulum)"
"Is Meckel diverticulum a true or false diverticulum? True (outpouching of all layers)"
"Meckel diverticulum arises due to persistence of the vitelline (omphalomesenteric) duct"
"What is the most common congenital anomaly of the GI tract? Meckel diverticulum"
"Meckel diverticulum is associated with the \rule of 2s\\"\""
"Meckel diverticulum is two times more likely to occur in males::gender"
"Meckel diverticulum is typically two inches long"
"Meckel diverticulum is typically located in the small bowel, two feet from the ileocecal valve"
"Meckel diverticulum typically presents during the first two years of life"
"Meckel diverticulum may contain ectopic acid-secreting gastric mucosa and/or pancreatic tissue"
"Meckel diverticulum is diagnosed using a(n) 99mTc-pertechnetate study for uptake by heterotopic gastric mucosa"
"Meckel diverticulum is typically asymptomatic but may present with volvulus, intussusception, melena/hematochezia, RLQ pain, or obstruction"
"The vitelline duct connects the yolk sac to the midgut lumen"
"What week does the vitelline duct normally obliterate? Week 7"
"What congenital anomaly is caused by complete failure of the vitelline duct to close? Vitelline fistula"
"What congenital anomaly is caused by only partial closure of the vitelline duct? Meckel diverticulum"
"What congenital anomaly is caused by cystic dilation of the vitelline duct? Vitelline cyst (enterocyst)"
"What congenital anomaly presents with meconium discharge from the umbilicus? Vitelline fistula"
"Volvulus is caused by twisting of a portion of bowel around its mesentery"
"Volvulus can lead to obstruction and infarction of the affected bowel region"
"Volvulus of the sigmoid colon is more commonly seen in the elderly::age group"
"Volvulus of the midgut is more commonly seen in infants and children"
"Volvulus of the cecum is more common in young adults"
"Intussusception is telescoping of a(n) proximal::proximal or distal bowel segment into a(n) distal::proximal or distal segment"
"In children, the most common cause of intussusception is lymphoid hyperplasia (e.g. due to rotavirus or adenovirus)"
"What is the most common pathologic lead point for intussusception in children over 2? Meckel diverticulum"
"What is the most common lead point for intussusception in adults? Intraluminal mass or tumor"
"Where in the GI tract does intussusception most commonly occur? Ileocecal junction"
"Intussusception results in compromised blood supply, which causes intermittent::frequency abdominal pain with \currant jelly\\" stool\""
"Intussusception is characterized by a \bull's-eye (target sign)\\" appearance on ultrasound\""
"Acute mesenteric ischemia may occur due to a thrombotic or embolic occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery"
"Acute mesenteric ischemia may occur due to a thrombosis of the mesenteric vein"
"Acute mesenteric ischemia is associated with transmural infarction and perforation, which may cause septic shock"
"Acute mesenteric ischemia is associated with small bowel necrosis and abdominal pain out of proportion to physical findings"
"Acute mesenteric ischemia may present with \currant jelly\\" stool\""
"Chronic mesenteric ischemia may occur due to severe hypotension or atherosclerosis of the celiac artery, SMA, or IMA"
"Chronic mesenteric ischemia is associated with mucosal::mucosal or transmural infarction"
"Chronic mesenteric ischemia is typically caused by intestinal hypoperfusion as a result of narrowed vasculature"
"Chronic mesenteric ischemia presents with epigastric pain that occurs after::before or after eating"
"What risk factor is associated with Warthin tumors? Smoking"
"Boerhaave syndrome may present with subcutaneous emphysema, which is characterized by crepitus felt in the neck region or chest wall"
"Esophagitis may occur with medications such as bisphosphonates, tetracyclines, NSAIDs, iron, and potassium chloride"
"Loss of which hormones/neurotransmitters are implicated in the pathogenesis of achalasia? NO and VIP::2"
"Sigmoid volvulus is associated with the \coffee bean\\" sign on X-ray\""
"What GI pathology is associated with the rotavirus vaccine? Intussusception"
"Lactose intolerance is caused by decreased function of the lactase enzyme found in brush border enterocytes"
"Lactose intolerance presents with abdominal distention and diarrhea upon consumption of milk products"
"Lactose intolerance is typically characterized by normal-appearing villi"
"Temporary lactase deficiency may be seen after small bowel infection (e.g. viral enteritis)"
"Lactose intolerance is characterized by a(n)decreased stool pH"
"Lactose intolerance may be diagnosed using the lactose hydrogen breath test"
"The lactose hydrogen breath test is positive for lactose malabsorption if the post-lactose breath hydrogen rises > 20 ppm compared with baseline"
"Celiac disease is immune-mediated damage of small bowel villi due to gluten exposure"
"Celiac disease is associated with HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8"
"What malabsorption disorder is associated with HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8? Celiac disease"
"What is the most pathogenic component of gluten (celiac disease)? Gliadin"
"Once absorbed, gliadin is deamidated by the enzyme tissue transglutaminase (tTG)"
"In Celiac disease, deamidated gliadin is presented by APCs via MHC class II"
"Which immune cell mediates the tissue damage in Celiac disease? Helper T cells"
"Celiac disease in children::age group classically presents as abdominal distention, steatorrhea, and failure to thrive"
"Celiac disease in adults::age group classically presents with chronic steatorrhea and bloating"
"Celiac disease is classically seen in people of northern European descent"
"Celiac disease is associated with dermatitis herpetiformis, which are small, herpes-like vesicles on the skin"
"The dermatitis herpetiformis that arises with celiac disease is due to IgA deposition at the tips of the dermal papillae"
"Celiac disease is classically associated with IgA antibodies against endomysium, tissue transglutaminase (tTG), and/or deamidated gliadin"
"In patients with IgA deficiency and celiac disease, IgG antibodies against endomysium, tTG, or gliadin are useful for diagnosis"
"There is an increased incidence of IgA deficiency in patients with celiac disease"
"Celiac disease is characterized histologically by flattening of villi"
"Celiac disease is characterized histologically by hyperplasia of crypts"
"Celiac disease is characterized histologically by increased intraepithelial lymphocytes"
"Celiac disease primarily affects the distal duodenum or proximal jejunum"
"Which type of sprue (celiac or tropical) primarily affects the proximal small bowel? Celiac sprue"
"Celiac disease is associated with increased risk for small bowel carcinoma and T-cell lymphoma"
"Celiac disease is associated with decreased bone density"
"What is the treatment for celiac disease? Gluten-free diet"
"Is celiac disease associated with normal or decreased urinary excretion of D-xylose (D-xylose test)? Decreased"
"Tropical sprue is characterized by damage to small bowel villi due to an unknown organism, resulting in malabsorption"
"Which malabsorption disorder is more common in tropical regions? Tropical sprue"
"Tropical sprue classically arises after infectious diarrhea"
"Which type of sprue (celiac or tropical) can affect any part of the small bowel? Tropical sprue"
"Tropical sprue presents similarly to celiac disease but responds to antibiotics"
"Tropical sprue may be associated with megaloblastic anemia"
"Is tropical sprue associated with normal or decreased urinary excretion of D-xylose (D-xylose test)? Decreased"
"Whipple disease is characterized by systemic tissue damage with macrophages loaded with Tropheryma whipplei organisms"
"Tropheryma whipplei is an intracellular, gram positive organism"
"The granules in macrophages in Whipple disease stain positive for PAS and are diastase resistant"
"Which malabsorption syndrome is associated with PAS positive, foamy macrophages? Whipple disease"
"Whipple disease classically involves the lamina propria::mucosal layer of the small bowel"
"Whipple disease may present with fat malabsorption and steatorrhea due to compression of lacteals by macrophages"
"What lymph nodes are commonly affected in Whipple disease? Mesenteric nodes"
"The symptoms of Whipple disease may be remembered with the mnemonic \Foamy Whipped cream in a CAN\\": C: cardiac symptoms A: arthralgias N: neurologic symptoms\""
"What demographic is most commonly affected by Whipple disease? Older men"
"Pancreatic insufficiency causes malabsorption of fat, fat-soluble vitamins, and vitamin B12"
"What test is used to indirectly assess pancreatic function? Fecal elastase"
"Pancreatic insufficiency is associated with decreased excretion of fecal elastase"
"Pancreatic insufficiency is associated with decreased duodenal pH"
"Is pancreatic insufficiency associated with normal or decreased urinary excretion of D-xylose (D-xylose test)? Normal"
"What stain is used to screen for fecal fat? Sudan stain"
"A-beta-lipoproteinemia is characterized by a deficiency of apolipoprotein B-48 and B-100"
"Abetalipoproteinemia is a(n) autosomal recessive inherited malabsorption disorder that is caused by a mutation in the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein"
"Abetalipoproteinemia is associated with malabsorption due to defective chylomicron formation, which requires apoB-48"
"Abetalipoproteinemia is associated with absent plasma VLDL and LDL, which require apoB-100"
"Carcinoid tumor is a malignant proliferation of neuroendocrine cells; low-grade malignancy"
"The tumor cells in carcinoid tumors contain secretory granules that stain positive for chromogranin A, synaptophysin, as well as other neuroendocrine markers"
"Carcinoid tumors may arise anywhere in the gut, however, they most commonly arise in the small bowel"
"What is the most common malignancy in the small intestine? Carcinoid tumor (neuroendocrine cells)"
"What neurotransmitter is often secreted by carcinoid tumors? Serotonin"
"The serotonin released from carcinoid tumors in the small bowel is metabolized in the liver by monoamine oxidase (MAO), producing 5-HIAA"
"Carcinoid tumors are characterized by increased excretion of 5-HIAA in the urine"
"Metastasis of carcinoid tumor to the liver allows serotonin to bypass first-pass metabolism and enter systemic circulation"
"The symptoms of carcinoid syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \Be FDR\\": Be: bronchospasm F: flushing D: diarrhea R: right-sided heart disease\""
"The symptoms of carcinoid syndrome may be triggered by alcohol or emotional stress, which stimulate serotonin release from the tumor"
"Carcinoid syndrome may cause right-sided valvular heart lesions such as tricuspid regurgitation and pulmonic stenosis"
"Why are left-sided heart valve lesions NOT seen with Carcinoid syndrome? Lung contains MAO, which metabolizes serotonin"
"Does carcinoid syndrome occur with carcinoid tumors that are limited to the GI tract? No"
"What vitamin deficiency may be caused by malignant carcinoid syndrome? Niacin (B3) deficiency"
"Carcinoid syndrome may be treated with surgical resection or with a(n) somatostatin analog"
"Carcinoid syndrome is associated with the \rule of 1/3s\\"\""
"Appendicitis is defined as acute inflammation of the appendix"
"Appendicitis is related to obstruction of the appendix by lymphoid hyperplasia (children)"
"Appendicitis in adults is typically related to obstruction of the appendix by a(n) fecalith"
"Appendicitis presents with diffuse periumbilical pain that eventually localizes to McBurney's point"
"Appendicitis may lead to rupture, resulting in peritonitis with guarding and rebound tenderness on physical exam"
"One sign of appendicitis is the obturator sign, which is pain on passive flexion and internal rotation of the right hip"
"One sensitive sign of appendicitis and psoas abscess is the psoas sign, which is pain on passive extension of the right hip"
"One sign of appendicitis is the Rovsing sign, which is pain over the right iliac fossa with palpation of the left iliac fossa"
"Periappendiceal abscess is a common complication of appendicitis"
"What other pathologies should be on a differential when considering appendicitis? Diverticulitis (elderly) and ectopic pregnancy"
"Inflammatory bowel disease classically presents in young women::gender with recurrent bloody diarrhea and abdominal pain"
"Inflammatory bowel disease is more prevalent in the West, particularly in caucasians and Eastern European Jews"
"Inflammatory bowel disease is subclassified as ulcerative colitis or Crohn disease"
"Which form of IBD involves only mucosal and submucosal ulcers? Ulcerative colitis"
"Which form of IBD involves transmural inflammation with \knife-like\\" fissures? Crohn disease\""
"Ulcerative colitis (IBD) is characterized by continuous colonic lesions that always involve the rectum"
"Ulcerative colitis always involves the rectum and can extend proximally up to the cecum"
"Crohn disease (IBD) is characterized by skip lesions, which can occur anywhere from the mouth to the anus"
"Crohn disease most commonly involves the terminal ileum"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease typically spares the rectum? Crohn disease"
"Which form of IBD always causes bloody diarrhea? Ulcerative colitis"
"Which form of IBD may cause bloody or non-bloody diarrhea? Crohn disease"
"Ulcerative colitis is typically characterized by left::left or right lower quadrant pain"
"Crohn disease is typically characterized by right::left or right lower quadrant pain"
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD is characterized histologically by crypt abscesses with neutrophils, ulcers, and bleeding"
"Crohn disease (IBD) is characterized histologically by lymphoid aggregates with noncaseating granulomas"
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD is Th2 mediated"
"Crohn disease (IBD) is Th1 mediated"
"Crohn disease (IBD) appears grossly with cobblestone mucosa"
"Crohn disease (IBD) appears grossly with \creeping\\" fat\""
"Crohn disease appears grossly with strictures (lumen size) and bowel wall thickening"
"Crohn disease (IBD) is associated with the \string\\" sign on imaging"
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD appears grossly with friable mucosal pseudopolyps"
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD is associated with the \lead pipe\\" sign on imaging"
"Complications of both ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease include malabsorption and colorectal cancer"
"Risk for colorectal cancer development from IBD is based on extent of colonic involvement and duration of disease"
"Complications of ulcerative colitis include toxic megacolon, which may perforate, and fulminant colitis"
"Complications associated with Crohn disease (IBD) include gallstones and calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis"
"Which form of IBD is associated with fistula formation? Crohn disease"
"One complication of Crohn disease is a(n) enterovesical fistula, which can cause UTI and pneumaturia"
"Which form of IBD is associated with perianal disease, phlegmon/abscess formation, and strictures? Crohn disease"
"Extraintestinal manifestations of IBD include arthritis, such as ankylosing spondylitis, sacroiliitis, migratory polyarthritis, and peripheral joints"
"Extraintestinal manifestations of IBD include rash, such as erythema nodosum and pyoderma gangrenosum"
"Extraintestinal manifestations of IBD include eye inflammation, such as uveitis and episcleritis"
"Extraintestinal manifestations of IBD include oral ulcerations (aphthous stomatitis)"
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD is associated with primary sclerosing cholangitis"
"What biliary tract disease is associated with ulcerative colitis? Primary sclerosing cholangitis"
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD may be associated with positive serum p-ANCA"
"Crohn disease (IBD) may be associated with positive serum anti-Saccharomyces cervisiae antibodies (ASCA)"
"Treatment for acute exacerbation of Crohn disease often involves corticosteroids"
"What 5-aminosalicylic preparations are useful in the management of ulcerative colitis and Crohn disease? Mesalamine and sulfasalazine::2"
"Treatment of IBD (Crohn's, UC) may involve TNF-α inhibitors, such as infliximab and adalimumab"
"Treatment of IBD (Crohn's, UC) may involve immunosuppressors, such as azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine"
"What treatment is curative for ulcerative colitis? Colectomy"
"Smoking is protective against ulcerative colitis::IBD"
"Smoking increases risk for Crohn disease::IBD"
"What viruses fall under Papilloma viruses: HPV"
"HPV 1-4 causes verruca vulgaris (cutaneous common wart)::what symptom"
"Cutaneous common wart (verruca vulgaris) are caused by what strains of HPV? HPV 1-4"
"Laryngeal papillomatosis and condyloma acuminata are caused by what strains of HPV? HPV 6, HPV 11"
"E6 encoded by HPV promotes proteolysis of p53"
"E7 encoded by HPV promotes proteolysis of Rb"
"Buzz word for HPV cervical cancer: post-coital bleeding"
"HPV encodes E6 and E7 which promotes proteolysis of p53 and Rb"
"Pathological change seen in invasive carcinoma of the cervix: koilocytic change"
"Gardasil HPV vaccine protects against what strains of HPV? 6, 11, 16, 18"
"Gardasil HPV vaccine is what type of vaccine? Quadrivalent::valency Protein subunit::type"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, vulva, vagina, anus, and penis are associated with what DNA viruses? HPV 16, 18, 31, 33"
"Hirschsprung disease is characterized by defective relaxation and peristalsis of the rectum and distal sigmoid colon"
"Hirschsprung disease is a congenital megacolon associated with Down syndrome"
"Hirschsprung disease occurs due to a congenital failure of ganglion cells to descend into the myenteric and submucosal plexus"
"The ganglion cells that fail to descend in Hirschsprung disease are derived from neural crest"
"Hirschsprung disease is associated with inactivating mutations in the RET gene"
"Hirschsprung disease is characterized by failure to pass meconium within 48 hours and chronic constipation"
"Hirschsprung disease may present with abdominal distention and bilious::bilious or nonbilious vomiting"
"Hirschsprung disease is characterized by explosive expulsion of feces (\squirt sign\\") and an empty rectal vault on digital rectal exam\""
"Hirschsprung disease is characterized by massive dilation of the bowel proximal::proximal or distal to the aganglionic segment, resulting in a \transition zone\\"\""
"Hirschsprung disease is diagnosed by absence of ganglionic cells on rectal suction biopsy"
"Treatment of Hirschsprung disease involves resection of the involved bowel"
"Colonic diverticula are \blind pouches\\" that communicate with the lumen of the gut\""
"Are colonic diverticula typically true or false diverticula? False (only involves mucosa and submucosa)"
"Which gut wall layers are involved in a false diverticulum (pseudodiverticulum)? Mucosa and submucosa"
"Which gut wall layers are involved in a true diverticulum? All three (mucosa, submucosa, muscularis externa)"
"GI tract diverticula classically arise where the vasa recta perforates the muscularis externa (weak point in colonic wall)"
"Diverticulosis is characterized by many false diverticula in the colon"
"What is the most common location for diverticulosis? Sigmoid colon"
"Diverticulosis is related to wall stress (pulsion diverticulosis) (e.g. constipation, straining, low fiber diet) and obesity"
"Diverticulosis is associated with low fiber diets"
"What demographic is commonly associated with diverticulosis? Older adults (risk increases with age)::age group"
"Diverticulosis is usually asymptomatic or associated with vague discomfort"
"Complications of diverticulosis include painless rectal bleeding (hematochezia)"
"Diverticulitis is a complication of diverticulosis due to inflammation of diverticula"
"Diverticulitis classically presents with a triad of LLQ pain, fever, and leukocytosis"
"What GI tract pathology presents with appendicitis-like symptoms in the LLQ? Diverticulitis"
"Diverticulitis may lead to a(n) colovesical fistula, which presents with pneumaturia (e.g. air or stool in the urine)"
"Complications of diverticulitis include abscess, perforation, and obstruction (inflammatory stenosis)"
"What is the general treatment for diverticulitis? Antibiotics"
"Angio-dysplasia is an acquired malformation resulting in tortuous dilation of vessels of the GI tract"
"Angiodysplasia usually arises in the cecum and right::right or left colon due to high wall tension"
"Angiodysplasia classically presents as hematochezia in an older adult"
"Angiodysplasia is confirmed by angiography"
"Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance disorder resulting in thin-walled blood vessels, especially in the mouth and GI tract"
"Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia is also known as Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome"
"Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia presents with blanching skin lesions, AV malformations, recurrent epistaxis, skin discoloration, GI bleeding, and hematuria"
"Ischemic colitis is caused by ischemic damage to the colon"
"Ischemic colitis usually occurs at the splenic flexure (griffith's point), which is the watershed area of the SMA and the IMA"
"Ischemic colitis is most commonly due to atherosclerosis of the SMA"
"Ischemic colitis presents with post-prandial abdominal pain followed by hematochezia"
"Ischemic colitis may present with the \thumbprint\\" sign on imaging due to mucosal edema/hemorrhage\""
"Irritable bowel syndrome is recurrent abdominal pain with > 2 of the following: - Pain related to defecation - Change in stool frequency - Change in stool consistency"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with irritable bowel syndrome? Middle-aged women"
"The chronic symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome may be diarrhea-predominant, constipation-predominant, or mixed"
"Is irritable bowel syndrome related to structural abnormalities? No"
"The first line treatment for Irritable bowel syndrome is lifestyle modification and increased dietary fiber"
"Colonic polyps are raised protrusions of colonic mucosa"
"Colonic polyps are grossly characterized as flat, sessile, or pedunculated (on a stalk)"
"Hyperplastic colonic polyps are due to hyperplasia of glands"
"Hyperplastic colonic polyps classically show a \serrated\\" appearance on microscopy\""
"What is the most common type of colonic polyp? Hyperplastic polyp"
"Hyperplastic colonic polyps are usually small::size and located in the rectosigmoid region"
"Hyperplastic colonic polyps are benign with no malignant potential"
"Hamartomatous colonic polyps are growths of normal colonic tissue with distorted architecture"
"Do hamartomatous colonic polyps have significant risk of malignant transformation? No"
"What type of colonic polyp is small (< 5 mm) and resembles normal mucosa? Mucosal polyps (clinically insignificant)"
"What type of colonic polyp is a result of mucosal erosion from inflammatory bowel disease? Inflammatory pseudopolyp::specific"
"What type of colonic polyp may include lesions such as lipomas, leiomyomas, fibromas, and others? Submucosal polyps"
"Adenomatous colonic polyps are due to a neoplastic proliferation of glands"
"Adenomatous colonic polyps are benign with some malignant potential"
"Adenomatous colonic polyps may progress to adenocarcinoma via the adenoma-carcinoma sequence"
"The adenoma-carcinoma sequence begins with APC gene mutations"
"Which adenoma-carcinoma sequence mutation results in increased risk for polyp formation? APC mutation"
"Following APC mutation (adenoma-carcinoma sequence), KRAS mutations lead to polyp formation (adenoma)"
"What type of gene is the APC gene? Tumor suppressor gene"
"Progression of colonic adenoma to carcinoma occurs with mutations in the p53 or loss of heterozygosity in the region that encodes for SMAD 2 / 4"
"Progression of colonic adenoma to carcinoma is associated with overexpression of COX-2"
"What drug class may be used to impede progression of colonic adenoma to carcinoma? NSAIDs (e.g. aspirin)"
"Sessile serrated colonic polyps have a \saw-tooth\\" pattern similar to hyperplastic polyps"
"Serrated colonic polyps are benign with some malignant potential"
"Serrated colonic polyps may develop into CRC via CpG hypermethylation with microsatellite instability and mutations in BRAF"
"Screening for colorectal polyps/carcinoma is performed by colonoscopy and testing for fecal occult blood (stool guaiac test)"
"Can an adenomatous polyp be distinguished from a hyperplastic polyp on gross examination (e.g. colonoscopy)? No (thus remove all polyps)"
"Which type of polyp has greater malignant potential, sessile or pedunculated? Sessile"
"Colonic polyps have a greater risk of progression to carcinoma if they are > 2 cm in size"
"Adenomatous polyps with a(n) tubular histology have less malignant potential than villous histology (tubular or villous)"
"Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance disorder characterized by 100s to 1000s of adenomatous colonic polyps"
"Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is due to an inherited mutation in the APC gene on chromosome 5q::arm"
"Colorectal cancer arises in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis via the \2-hit hypothesis\\"\""
"Familial adenomatous polyposis is pancolonic and always involves the rectum"
"Familial adenomatous polyposis is treated with prophylactic colectomy, or else 100% of patients progress to CRC"
"Gardner syndrome is a combination of familial adenomatous polyposis with osteomas and fibromatosis"
"Turcot syndrome is a combination of familial adenomatous polyposis with malignant CNS tumors (e.g. medulloblastoma, glioma)"
"Juvenile polyps usually present in childhood as a solitary rectal polyp that prolapses and bleeds"
"Juvenile polyposis syndrome is characterized by numerous hamartomatous polyps WITHOUT hyperpigmentation"
"What demographic is associated with juvenile polyposis syndrome? Children < 5 years old::age group- specific"
"Juvenile polyposis syndrome is characterized by many juvenile polyps in the stomach, colon, and small bowel"
"Juvenile polyposis syndrome is associated with increased risk for colorectal carcinoma"
"Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is characterized by numerous harmartomatous polyps WITH hyperpigmentation of the lips, mouth, hands, and genital skin"
"Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is associated with increased risk of breast, GI, and gynecologic cancers"
"Colorectal carcinoma is the third most common cause of cancer-related death"
"The peak incidence of colorectal carcinoma is 60 - 70 years of age"
"FAP and most sporadic colorectal carcinomas arise via the chromosomal instability pathway"
"Lynch syndrome and some sporadic colorectal carcinomas arise via the microsatellite instability pathway"
"Microsatellites are repeating sequences of non-coding::coding/non-coding DNA"
"The microsatellite instability pathway of colorectal cancer is characterized by mutations or methylation of mismatch repair genes"
"Lynch syndrome is due to an inherited defect in DNA mismatch repair enzymes, resulting in microsatellite instability"
"Lynch syndrome was previously known as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC)"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Lynch syndrome (HNPCC)? Autosomal dominant"
"Lynch syndrome progresses to colorectal cancer in ~ 80% of patients"
"Lynch syndrome is usually right-sided and always involves the proximal::proximal or distal colon"
"Lynch syndrome is associated with increased risk for colorectal, endometrial, ovarian, and skin cancers"
"Screening for colorectal carcinoma in low-risk patients begins at 45 years of age (e.g. colonoscopy, fecal occult blood (stool guaiac test))"
"25% of colorectal cancers arise in patients with a positive family history"
"Patients with a first-degree relative with colon cancer should be screened via colonoscopy starting at age 40 or starting 10 years prior to their relative's presentation"
"Risk factors for colorectal carcinoma include adenomatous and serrated polyps"
"Risk factors for colorectal carcinoma include tobacco use, alcohol, and type 2 diabetes"
"Risk factors for colorectal carcinoma include diets with processed meat and low fiber"
"Which part of the colon does colorectal carcinoma most commonly arise? Rectosigmoid region"
"Left-sided colorectal carcinoma usually grows as a \napkin-ring (infiltrating)\\" lesion\""
"Left-sided colorectal carcinoma presents with decreased stool caliber due to partial obstruction"
"Left-sided colorectal carcinoma presents with colicky pain and hematochezia (stool)"
"Left-sided colorectal carcinoma usually arises as a result of the adenoma-carcinoma sequence"
"Right-sided colorectal carcinoma usually grows as a(n) raised (exophytic) mass"
"Right-sided colorectal carcinoma presents with vague pain, weight loss, and iron deficiency anemia"
"Right-sided colorectal carcinoma usually arises as a result of the microsatellite instability pathway"
"Iron deficiency anemia in males (especially > 50) and postmenopausal females raises suspicion of colorectal carcinoma"
"Colorectal carcinoma rarely presents with Streptococcus bovis (gallolyticus) bacteremia"
"Colorectal carcinoma may be visualized as an \apple core\\" lesion seen on barium enema X-ray\""
"The T of TNM staging for colorectal carcinoma represents the depth of invasion"
"The N of TNM staging for colorectal carcinoma represents regional lymph node involvement"
"The M of TNM staging for colorectal carcinoma represents distant metastasis"
"Colorectal cancer most commonly metastasizes to the liver"
"What tumor marker is useful for assessing treatment response and recurrence of colorectal carcinoma? CEA"
"Adhesions are fibrous bands of scar tissue that commonly form after GI surgery"
"What is the most common cause of small bowel obstruction? Adhesion"
"Ileus is an intestinal hypomotility without obstruction that results in constipation and decreased flatus"
"Ileus is associated with a distended/tympanic abdomen and decreased bowel sounds"
"Treatment of ileus includes bowel rest, electrolyte correction, and cholinergic drugs (stimulate intestinal motility)"
"Meconium ileus is characterized by a meconium plug that obstructs the intestine, preventing stool passage at birth"
"Necrotizing enterocolitis is a GI pathology seen in premature, formula-fed infants with immature immune systems"
"Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is characterized by necrosis of intestinal mucosa with possible perforation, which can lead to: - free air in the bowel wall (pneumatosis intestinalis) - free air in the abdomen (pneumoperitoneum) - portal venous gas on imaging"
"Malrotation is a congenital anomaly of midgut rotation during fetal development"
"Malrotation results in improper positioning of the bowel with improper formation of fibrous, \Ladd's bands\\"\""
"Malrotation can lead to volvulus and duodenal obstruction"
"Which embryological structure develops into the pancreas? Foregut"
"Which embryological pancreatic bud(s) contribute to the main pancreatic duct? Ventral pancreatic buds"
"Which embryological pancreatic bud(s) contribute to the uncinate process? Ventral pancreatic buds"
"Which embryological pancreatic bud(s) contribute to the body, tail, and isthmus of the pancreas? Dorsal pancreatic buds"
"Which embryological pancreatic bud(s) contribute to the accessory pancreatic duct? Dorsal pancreatic buds"
"Which embryological pancreatic bud(s) contribute to the head of the pancreas? Both ventral AND dorsal pancreatic buds :)"
"Annular pancreas is a congenital malformation in which the ventral pancreatic bud forms a ring around the 2nd part of the duodenum"
"Annular pancreas may cause duodenal obstruction and bilious::bilious/non-bilious vomiting"
"Pancreas divisum is a congenital malformation in which the ventral and dorsal parts fail to fuse at 8 weeks"
"Pancreas divisum is mostly asymptomatic, but may cause chronic abdominal pain and/or pancreatitis"
"Which embryological structure develops into the spleen? Mesoderm"
"What is the embryonic gut region of the blood supply to the spleen (e.g. foregut, midgut, hindgut)? Foregut (celiac trunk gives rise to the splenic artery)"
"Acute pancreatitis is due to autodigestion of pancreatic parenchyma by pancreatic enzymes"
"In acute pancreatitis, trypsin is prematurely activated, which leads to activation of other pancreatic enzymes"
"Acute pancreatitis results in liquefactive necrosis of the pancreas"
"Acute pancreatitis results in fat necrosis of the peripancreatic fat"
"Acute pancreatitis is most commonly due to alcohol or gallstones"
"The causes of {{c14::acute pancreatitis may be remembered with the mnemonic \I GET PP SMASHED\\": I: Idiopathic G: Gallstones E: Ethanol T: Trauma (e.g. automobile accident in children - seatbelt injury) P: {{c13::Posterior duodenal ulcer rupture P: {{c15::Pancreas Divisum S: Steroids M: Mumps A: Autoimmune disease S: Scorpion sting H: HYPERcalcemia or {{c10::Hypertriglyceridemia/Hyperchylomicronemia E: {{c11::ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) D: {{c12::Drugs (e.g. sulfa drugs"
"Acute pancreatitis is diagnosed by 2 of 3 criteria: - Acute epigastric pain that radiates to the back - Increased serum amylase or lipase to 3x upper limit of normal - Characteristic imaging findings"
"One criteria for diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is acute epigastric abdominal pain that radiates to the back"
"One criteria for diagnosis of acute pancreatitis is increased serum amylase or lipase"
"Which pancreatic enzyme is more specific for acute pancreatitis? Lipase::amylase or lipase"
"Acute pancreatitis may present with hypo-calcemia/magnesemia"
"Acute pancreatitis may progress to shock, due to pancreatic hemorrhage and fluid sequestration"
"Acute pancreatitis may be complicated by pancreatic pseudocysts, which are formed by fibrous tissue surrounding liquefactive necrosis and pancreatic enzymes"
"Pancreatic pseudocyst presents as an abdominal mass with persistently elevated serum amylase"
"Pancreatic pseudocysts may rupture, causing hemorrhage and release of enzymes into the abdominal cavity"
"Pancreatic abscess presents with abdominal pain, high fever, and persistently elevated serum amylase"
"Pancreatic abscess is often due to E. coli infection"
"Complications of acute pancreatitis include DIC due to activation of coagulation factors"
"Complications of acute pancreatitis include ARDS due to damage to the alveolar capillary interface"
"Chronic pancreatitis is characterized by fibrosis of pancreatic parenchyma"
"Chronic pancreatitis is most often secondary to recurrent acute pancreatitis"
"What are the major causes of chronic pancreatitis in adults? Alcohol and genetic predisposition (ex. Cystic Fibrosis)"
"What is the most common cause of chronic pancreatitis in children? Cystic fibrosis"
"Pancreatitis (acute and chronic) may present with epigastric abdominal pain that radiates to the back"
"Chronic pancreatitis may present with pancreatic insufficiency, which results in malabsorption with steatorrhea and fat-soluble vitamin deficiences"
"Are serum amylase and lipase useful serum markers for chronic pancreatitis? No (may or may not be elevated)"
"Chronic pancreatitis is characterized by atrophy and dystrophic calcification of pancreatic parenchyma on imaging"
"Contrast studies of chronic pancreatitis reveal a \chain of lakes\\" pattern due to dilatation of pancreatic ducts\""
"What endocrine pathology may arise secondary to chronic pancreatitis? Diabetes mellitus"
"Chronic pancreatitis results in increased risk for pancreatic carcinoma"
"What type of cancer (e.g. SCC, adenocarcinoma, etc.) is pancreatic carcinoma? Adenocarcinoma"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is a very aggressive tumor arising from the pancreatic ducts::ducts or acini"
"What age group is most commonly affected by pancreatic adenocarcinoma? Elderly"
"The major risk factors for pancreatic adenocarcinoma are - smoking - chronic pancreatitis (especially > 20 years)"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is more common in Jewish::ethnicity and African American::ethnicity males::gender"
"What endocrine pathology is a risk factor for pancreatic adenocarcinoma? Diabetes mellitus"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma often presents with epigastric abdominal pain that radiates to the back"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma often presents with weight loss, secondary to malabsorption and anorexia"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma often presents as obstructive jaundice with a(n) painless, palpable gallbladder"
"A painless, palpable gallbladder in pancreatic adenocarcinoma is also known as the Courvoisier sign"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma most commonly arises in the head of the pancreas"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma in the body or tail may present with secondary diabetes mellitus"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma may present with migratory thrombophlebitis, which is redness and tenderness in the extremities"
"Migratory thrombophlebitis in pancreatic adenocarcinoma is also known as the Trousseau syndrome"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is associated with the serum tumor markers CA 19-9 and CEA (less specific)"
"Treatment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma includes the Whipple procedure, chemotherapy, and radiation"
"What surgical procedure involves the en bloc removal of the head/neck of the pancreas, proximal duodenum, and gallbladder? Whipple procedure"
"What is the prognosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma? Very poor (1-year survival < 10%)"
"Biliary atresia is a failure to form or early destruction of the extrahepatic biliary tree"
"Biliary atresia typically leads to biliary obstruction within the first 2 months of life"
"Biliary atresia presents with jaundice (CB) and progresses to cirrhosis"
"Cholelithiasis (gallstones) are solid, round stones in the gallbladder"
"Cholelithiasis may arise due to increased cholesterol or bilirubin in bile"
"Cholelithiasis may arise due to decreased phospholipids and/or bile acids"
"Cholelithiasis may arise due to stasis of the gallbladder"
"There are two types of gallstones: cholesterol and pigmented"
"Which type of gallstone is the most common, especially in the West? Cholesterol stone (80%)"
"Are cholesterol gallstones typically radiolucent or radiopaque? Radiolucent"
"~ 10 - 20% of cholesterol gallstones are radiopaque due to calcifications"
"Risk factors for cholesterol gallstones may be remembered with the \4 F's\\": 1. Fat 2. Female (estrogen increases activity of HMG-CoA reductase) 3. Fertile (pregnant) 4. Forty\""
"What classes of lipid lowering drugs are associated with cholesterol gallstone formation? Fibrates and bile acid resins::2"
"Cholesterol gallstones are more common in people of Native American descent"
"Which type of gallstone (cholesterol or pigment) is associated with rapid weight loss? Cholesterol gallstone"
"Which form of IBD has increased risk for gallstones (both cholesterol and pigment)? Crohn disease"
"Black::color pigment gallstones are radio-opaque and composed of calcium bilirubinate"
"Brown::color pigment gallstones are radio-lucent and arise with biliary tract infection"
"Biliary tract infections may cause pigment gallstones by deconjugating bilirubin, which increases risk of precipitation"
"Which type of gallstone is associated with extravascular hemolysis? Bilirubin (pigment) stones"
"Ascaris lumbricoides is a common roundworm that infects the biliary tract, increasing the risk for gallstones"
"Clonorchis sinensis is a liver fluke that infects the biliary tract, increasing the risk for gallstones, cholangitis, and cholangiocarcinoma"
"Which type of gallstone is associated with alcoholic cirrhosis? Pigment stones"
"Which type of gallstone is associated with total parenteral nutrition (TPN)? Cholesterol stones"
"The most common gallstone complication is cholecystitis"
"What imaging technique is used to diagnose gallstones? Ultrasound"
"Gallstones may be treated with elective cholecystectomy if symptomatic"
"Biliary colic is a waxing and waning right upper quadrant pain associated with gallstones; may also have nausea and vomiting"
"Biliary colic occurs due to gallbladder contraction against a stone lodged in the cystic duct"
"Cholecystitis is an acute or chronic inflammation of the gallbladder with gallbladder wall thickening"
"Is cholecystitis typically calculous or acalculous? Calculous"
"Calculous cholecystitis results from an impacted stone in the cystic duct, resulting in dilatation with inflammation and bacterial overgrowth"
"What bacteria is a common cause of secondary infection in calculous cholecystitis? E. coli"
"Acalculous cholecystitis is due to gallbladder stasis, hypoperfusion, or infection (no obstruction); seen in critically ill patients"
"What infection is associated with acalculous cholecystitis? CMV"
"Acute cholecystitis presents with RUQ pain that often radiates to the right scapula"
"Cholecystitis may present with elevated serum alkaline phosphatase if the bile duct is involved"
"Cholecystitis is associated with a positive Murphy's sign, which is inspiratory arrest on RUQ palpation due to pain"
"Rokitansky-Aschoff sinus is a herniation of gallbladder mucosa into the muscular wall associated with chronic cholecystitis"
"Chronic cholecystitis presents with vague RUQ pain, especially after eating"
"Cholecystitis is diagnosed with ultrasound or HIDA scan"
"Porcelain gallbladder is a calcified gallbladder that results from chronic cholecystitis"
"Porcelain gallbladder is a shrunken, hard gallbladder due to chronic inflammation, fibrosis, and dystrophic calcification"
"Porcelain gallbladder is treated with prophylactic cholecystectomy due to high rates of gallbladder cancer (mostly adenocarcinoma)"
"Ascending cholangitis is a bacterial infection of the bile ducts"
"Ascending cholangitis is usually due to ascending infection with enteric gram-negative bacteria"
"Ascending cholangitis classically presents with the Charcot triad of jaundice, fever, and RUQ pain"
"In addition to the Charcot triad, Ascending cholangitis may also present with altered mental status and shock (Reynolds pentad)"
"There is an increased incidence of ascending cholangitis with choledocholithiasis (stones in the biliary ducts)"
"Choledocholithiasis is the presence of gallstones is the common bile duct, often leading to elevated ALP, GGT, direct bilirubin, and/or AST/ALT"
"Gallstone ileus typically involves obstruction of the ileocecal valve by a gallstone"
"Gallstone ileus occurs secondary to cholecystitis with fistula formation between the gallbladder and small bowel"
"Cholecystitis can cause fistula formation with the GI tract, resulting in air in the biliary tree (pneumobilia)"
"What type of cancer (e.g. SCC, adenocarcinoma, etc.) is gallbladder carcinoma? Adenocarcinoma"
"The major risk factor for gallbladder carcinoma is gallstones, especially when complicated by porcelain gallbladder"
"Gallbladder carcinoma classically presents as new-onset cholecystitis in an elderly woman::gender"
"What is the prognosis of gallbladder carcinoma? Poor"
"Which disease presents with starry sky appearance on histology, large jaw lesion and swelling assoc. with EBV? Endemic (African) Burkitt Lymphoma"
"LTB4 is an arachidonic acid pathway metabolite that causes neutrophil chemotaxis"
"Prostacyclin analogs (epoprostenol/iloprost) can cause decreased platelet aggregation and are potent vasodilators"
"The effects of thromboxane A2(TXA2) are increased platelet aggreggation and vasoconstriction"
"Leukotrienes are synthesized from arachidonic acid by 5-Lipoxygenase"
"PGI2, PGE1, PGE2, PGF2-alpha, and thromboxane A2 are synthesized from arachidonic acid by COX-1 and COX-2"
"The effect of aspirin on coagulation studies is increased bleeding time, no change in PT and PTT"
"The effect of low dose aspirin <300 mg/day is decreased platelet aggregation"
"The effect of intermediate dose aspirin 300-2400 mg/day is antipyretic and analgesic"
"The effect of high dose aspirin 2400-4000 mg/day is  anti-inflammatory"
"Acute adverse effects of aspirin use are gastric ulceration and tinnitus (CN VIII) (ears ringing)"
"Adverse effects of chronic aspirin use include: - acute renal injury - acute interstitial nephritis - GI bleeding"
"Which three drugs are used to treat acute gout? NSAIDs (do not use salicylates) > colchicine > glucocorticoids"
"What type of vaccine is used for HPV? Subunit"
"Goodpasture syndrome is an autoimmune disease that is associated with exposure to hydrocarbon solvents (e.g. dry-cleaning, paints, dyes) and cigarette smoke"
"What is the mode of inheritance of juvenile polyposis syndrome? Autosomal dominant"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Peutz-Jeghers syndrome? Autosomal dominant"
"The most common cause of meningitis in children is Streptococcus pneumoniae::not neonates infection"
"Which intracranial hemorrhage is seen in the image below? Subarachnoid hemorrhage"
"Hodgkin lymphoma is associated with EBV infection"
"The embryonic notochord becomes the nucleus pulposus of the intervetebral discs in adults"
"Which form of spina bifida is associated with myelomeningocele? Spina bifida cystica"
"Holoprosencephaly is characterized by a monoventricle and fusion of basal ganglia on MRI"
"The 1st and 2nd branchial arches form the anterior two-thirds of the tongue"
"The 3rd and 4th branchial arches form the posterior one-third of the tongue"
"The motor innervation to most muscles of the tongue is via CN XII"
"The palatoglossus muscle is the only tongue muscle innervated by CN X"
"Which tongue muscle retracts and depresses the tongue? Hyoglossus"
"Which tongue muscle protrudes the tongue? Genioglossus"
"Which tongue muscle draws the sides of the tongue upwards (creates a trough for swallowing)? Styloglossus"
"Which tongue muscle elevates the posterior tongue when swallowing? Palatoglossus"
"Which nervous system cell is typically damaged by Guillain-Barré syndrome? Schwann cells"
"Infarction and/or neoplasm of the blood-brain-barrier destroys endothelial cell tight junctions, causing vasogenic edema"
"The ventral tegmentum and substantia nigra pars compacta are responsible for the synthesis of dopamine"
"Which dopaminergic pathway connects the ventral tegmentum (midbrain) to the prefrontal cortex? Mesocortical pathway"
"Blockage of the mesocortical dopamine pathway results in increased \negative\\" symptoms of schizophrenia\""
"Are 1st-generation anti-psychotic drugs effective at reducing the \negative symptoms\\" associated with schizophrenia? No (limited effect)\""
"Which dopaminergic pathway connects the ventral tegmentum (midbrain) to the limbic system? Mesolimbic pathway"
"Stimulation of the mesolimbic dopamine pathway results in increased \positive\\" symptoms of schizophrenia\""
"Are anti-psychotic drugs effective at reducing the \positive symptoms\\" associated with schizophrenia? Yes\""
"Which dopaminergic pathway is the primary target for the antipsychotic treatment of schizoprenia? Mesolimbic pathway"
"Which dopaminergic pathway connects the substantia nigra pars compacta to the neostriatum? Nigrostriatal pathway"
"Blockage of the nigrostriatal dopamine pathway results in increased extrapyramidal symptoms"
"Decreased activity of which dopaminergic pathway produces extrapyramidal symptoms? Nigrostriatal pathway"
"The nigrostriatal pathway is significantly affected by movement disorders and antipsychotic drugs"
"Which dopaminergic pathway connects the arcuate nucleus (hypothalamus) to the pituitary? Tuberoinfundibular pathway"
"Blockage of the tuberoinfundibular dopamine pathway results in symptoms of prolactin excess"
"Decreased activity of which dopaminergic pathway produces prolactin excess? Tuberoinfundibular pathway"
"Depression::depression or anxiety is characterized by decreased dopamine"
"The basal nucleus of Meynert is responsible for the synthesis of acetylcholine"
"What pathology is characterized by degeneration of the basal nucleus of Meynert? Alzheimer disease"
"GABA is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter of the CNS"
"γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a neurotransmitter derived from the amino acid glutamate"
"The nucleus accumbens is responsible for synthesis of the neurotransmitter GABA"
"Anxiety::depression or anxiety is characterized by decreased GABA"
"Glycine is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter of the spinal cord"
"Glutamate is the main excitatory neurotransmitter of the CNS"
"Depression::depression or anxiety is characterized by decreased norepinephrine"
"Anxiety::depression or anxiety is characterized by increased norepinephrine"
"Depression is characterized by decreased serotonin"
"Anxiety is characterized by decreased serotonin"
"The reticular activating system (RAS) is formed by the reticular formation, locus coeruleus, and raphe nucleus"
"The reticular activating system mediates consciousness, wakefulness, attentiveness"
"Lesion of the reticular activating system::midbrain results in reduced levels of arousal and wakefulness (i.e. coma)"
"The rostral interstitial nucleus is the portion of the medial longitudinal fasciculus responsible for vertical gaze"
"Strokes involving the lenticulostriate artery typically involve the striatum and internal capsule"
"What visual field defect is associated with Wernicke aphasia secondary to middle cerebral artery stroke? Contralateral homonymous superior quadrantanopia"
"CN I exits the skull through the cribriform foramina"
"CN II exits the skull through the optic canal"
"CNs III, IV, VI, and V1 exit the skull through the superior orbital fissure"
"CN V2 exits the skull through the foramen rotundum"
"CN V3 exits the skull through the foramen ovale"
"The middle meningeal artery enters the skull through the foramen spinosum"
"CN VII and VIII exit the skull through the internal auditory meatus"
"CN IX, X, and XI exit the skull through the jugular foramen"
"The jugular vein exits the skull through the jugular foramen"
"CN XII exits the skull through the hypoglossal canal"
"The brainstem, spinal root of CN XI, and vertebral arteries exit/enter the skull through the foramen magnum"
"ID Bony Opening: Cribriform plate - Exit for CN I"
"ID Bony Opening: Optic canal - Exit for CN II and ophthalamic artery::nerve and vessel"
"ID Bony Opening: Superior orbital fissure - Exit for CN III, IV, VI, and V1::4 nerves, 1 vessel"
"ID Bony Opening: Foramen rotundum - Exit for CN V2 I see (optic) Standing Room Only Sorry"
"ID Bony Opening: Foramen ovale - Exit for CN V3::2"
"ID Bony Opening: Foramen spinosum - Exit for middle meningeal artery::1 a.v.+ bonus nerve"
"ID Bony Opening: Internal auditory meatus - Exit for CN VII, VIII and labyrinthine artery::2 nerves, 1 artery"
"ID Bony Opening: Jugular foramen - Exit for CN IX, X, XI, and jugular vein::3 nerves, 1 vein, 2 sinus, 1 artery"
"ID Bony Opening: Hypoglossal canal - Exit for CN XII"
"ID Bony Opening: Foramen magnum - Exit/entry for brainstem, spinal root of CN XI, and vertebral arteries::1 nerve, 1 vessel"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the afferent limb of the corneal reflex? CN V1 (nasociliary br. of ophthalmic)"
"Which cranial nerve (and branch) is responsible for the efferent limb of the corneal reflex? Bilateral CN VII (temporal br. via orbicularis oculi)"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the afferent limb of the lacrimation reflex? CN V1"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the efferent limb of the lacrimation reflex? CN VII"
"Does loss of the lacrimation reflex prevent formation of emotional tears? No"
"Which two reflexes are mediated by CN V1 and VII (afferent and efferent, respectively)? Lacrimation and corneal"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the afferent limb of the jaw jerk reflex? CN V3 (sensory muscle spindle from masseter)"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the efferent limb of the jaw jerk reflex? CN V3 (motor from masseter)"
"Which reflex is mediated by CN V3 (afferent and efferent)? Jaw jerk reflex"
"Which reflex is mediated by CN II and III (afferent and efferent, respectively)? Pupillary light reflex"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the afferent limb of the gag reflex? CN IX"
"Which cranial nerve is responsible for the efferent limb of the gag reflex? CN X"
"The cavernous sinus is a collection of venous sinuses on either side of the pituitary"
"The cavernous sinus drains blood from the eye and superficial cortex"
"The cavernous sinus drains into the internal jugular vein"
"What nerve(s) are found on the lateral walls of the cavernous sinus? CN III, IV, V1, V2"
"What nerve(s) are found medially within the cavernous sinus? CN VI"
"In addition to CNs, the cavernous sinus also contains portions of the internal carotid artery and hypothalamospinal tract fibers en route to the orbit"
"Cavernous sinus syndrome may present with variable ophthalmoplegia due to compression of various CNs"
"Cavernous sinus syndrome may present with decreased corneal and/or maxillary sensation"
"Cavernous sinus syndrome may present with Horner syndrome due to disruption of sympathetic fibers in the carotid plexus"
"Cavernous sinus syndrome may be seen secondary to pituitary tumor mass effect"
"Cavernous sinus syndrome may arise due to a carotid-cavernous fistula"
"Cavernous sinus syndrome may arise with cavernous sinus thrombosis related to infection"
"Which cranial nerve is most susceptible to injury to the cavernous sinus? CN VI (abducens)"
"All RNA viruses replicate in the cytoplasm::cytoplasm or nucleus except for influenza and retroviruses"
"Papez circuit describes the neural circuit for emotional expression and includes the hippocampus, mammillary bodies, anterior thalamic nuclei, cingulate gyrus, and entorhinal cortex"
"Hypothalamic secretion of GnRH is mediated by the preoptic nucleus and arcuate nucleus"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension is also known as pseudotumor cerebri"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension is characterized by increased ICP with no apparent cause on imaging (e.g. no hydrocephalus, obstruction of CSF outflow)"
"What demographic is classically affected by Idiopathic intracranial hypertension? Obese females"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension is associated with vitamin A excess"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension can be associated with use of certain drugs, such as tetracyclines and danazol"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension may present with symptoms of daily headache, as well as transient visual changes that are exacerbated by valsalva"
"Is idiopathic intracranial hypertension associated with a change in mental status? No"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension may present with bilateral symmetric papilledema on funduscopy"
"Lumbar puncture in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension reveals increased opening pressure and provides headache relief"
"Conservative treatment of idiopathic intracranial hypertension includes weight loss"
"Pharmacologic treatment of Idiopathic intracranial hypertension often involves acetazolamide or topiramate"
"One treatment for refractory idiopathic intracranial hypertension is repeated lumbar puncture"
"One treatment for refractory Idiopathic intracranial hypertension is ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt placement to reroute CSF from the ventricles"
"One treatment for refractory idiopathic intracranial hypertension is optic nerve sheath fenestration surgery"
"What is a worrisome sequelae of idiopathic intracranial hypertension if left untreated? Vision loss"
"Partial (focal) seizures affect a single area of the brain"
"Partial seizures most commonly originate in the medial temporal lobe"
"Focal with impairment of awareness* seizures are often preceded by a(n) seizure aura"
"Focal with no impairment of awareness seizures are characterized by intact::intact or impaired consciousness"
"Focal with impairment of awareness* seizures are characterized by impaired::intact or impaired consciousness"
"Generalized seizures are diffuse and affect the entire brain"
"Which type of generalized seizure is characterized by a blank stare? Absence seizures"
"Absence seizures are characterized by impaired consciousness with no postictal confusion"
"Absence seizures are also known as petit mal seizures"
"Absence seizures are characterized by 3 Hz spike-and-wave discharges on EEG"
"Myoclonic seizures are characterized by quick single or repetitive muscle jerks"
"Tonic-clonic seizures are characterized by alternating stiffening and movement"
"Tonic-clonic seizures are also known as grand mal seizures"
"Tonic seizures are characterized by stiffening"
"Atonic seizures are characterized by sudden loss of muscle tone, thus known as \drop\\" seizures\""
"Atonic seizures are commonly mistaken for fainting"
"Epilepsy is a disorder of recurrent seizures (non-febrile)"
"Status epilepticus is seizure activity for > 5 - 30 minutes (continuous or intermittent) without fully regaining consciousness between episodes, resulting in brain injury and possibly death"
"The most common cause of seizure in children is typically genetic"
"The most common cause of seizure in adults is typically tumor"
"The most common cause of seizure in the elderly is typically stroke"
"Cluster headaches are uni-lateral"
"Cluster headaches generally last from 15 minutes to 3 hours"
"Cluster headaches are more common in males::gender"
"Cluster headaches are characterized by repetitive, brief headaches that occur seasonally"
"Cluster headaches are associated with excruciating periorbital::location pain"
"Cluster headaches may be associated with lacrimation and rhinorrhea"
"Cluster headaches may present with Horner syndrome"
"Tension headaches are bi-lateral"
"Tension headaches generally last from 4 to 6 hours"
"Tension headaches are more common in females::gender"
"Do tension headaches cause throbbing or constant pain? Constant/steady pain"
"Are tension headaches associated with photo- and/or phonophobia? No"
"Are tension headaches associated with auras? No"
"Migraines are uni-lateral"
"Migraines generally last from 4 to 72 hours"
"Migraines are more common in females::gender"
"Do migraines cause throbbing or constant pain? Throbbing pain"
"Are migraines associated with photo- and phonophobia? Yes"
"Are migraines associated with auras? Yes (~20%)"
"Migraines typically present as a pulsating pain with nausea, photophobia, or phonophobia"
"Are headaches caused by irritation of dura, cranial nerves, and extracranial structures? Yes"
"Are headaches caused by irritation of the brain parenchyma? No"
"The pathophysiology of migraine headaches is related to release of vasoactive peptides, substance P, and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)"
"Sleep is divided into two stages, REM and non-REM"
"What EEG waveform is emitted when awake with eyes open? Beta (highest frequency, lowest amplitude)"
"What sleep EEG waveform has the highest frequency and lowest amplitude? Beta"
"What EEG waveform is emitted when awake with eyes closed? Alpha"
"Stage N1 of non-REM sleep is described as light sleep"
"What EEG waveform is emitted during light sleep (N1)? Theta"
"Stage N2 of non-REM sleep is described as deeper sleep"
"What EEG waveforms are emitted during deeper sleep (N2)? Sleep spindles and K complexes::2"
"Which stage of sleep does bruxism (teeth grinding) occur? Stage N2"
"Stage N3 of non-REM sleep is described as the deepest non-REM sleep (\slow-wave\\" sleep)\""
"What EEG waveform is emitted during deep \slow wave\\" sleep (N3)? Delta\""
"What sleep EEG waveform has the lowest frequency and highest amplitude? Delta"
"Which stage of sleep do sleepwalking and night terrors occur? Stage N3"
"Which stage of sleep does bedwetting occur? Stage N3"
"Which stage of sleep do young adults spend the most time in? Stage N2 (45%)"
"Which stage of sleep do young adults spend the least time in? Stage N1 (5%)"
"Which stage of sleep is associated with loss of motor tone? REM sleep"
"REM sleep is characterized by increased brain O2 use and variable pulse and blood pressure"
"REM sleep may play a role in memory processing"
"What neurotransmitter is increased during REM sleep? Acetylcholine (thus increased vagal tone)"
"Which stage of sleep do dreams and nightmares occur? REM sleep"
"Which stage of sleep do penile and clitoral tumescence occur? REM sleep"
"Extraocular movements during REM sleep are due to activity of the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF)"
"On average, REM sleep occurs every 90 minutes, with increasing duration through the night"
"Depression is associated with increased total REM sleep"
"Depression is associated with decreased REM latency"
"Sleep in the elderly is associated with decreased REM sleep"
"Sleep in the elderly is associated with increased REM latency"
"Both the elderly and depressed experience decreased slow wave sleep (stage N3)"
"Both the elderly and depressed experience increased early awakenings (terminal insomnia)"
"What demographic is associated with decreased REM sleep and increased REM latency? Elderly patients"
"What demographic is associated with increased REM sleep and decreased REM latency? Patients with depression"
"What is the effect of benzodiazepines and barbiturates on REM and slow-wave sleep (N3)? Decreased REM and slow-wave sleep"
"What is the effect of alcohol on REM and slow-wave sleep (N3)? Decreased REM and slow-wave sleep"
"What is the effect of norepinephrine on REM sleep? Decreased REM sleep"
"Pharmacologic treatment of night enuresis may include desmopressin (preferred) or imipramine"
"What is the first-line treatment for bedwetting in children? Motivational therapy (e.g. star chart)"
"Benzodiazepines are useful for treating night terrors and sleepwalking by decreasing N3 and REM sleep"
"Primitive reflexes normally disappear within the 1st year of life"
"Primitive reflexes are inhibited by a mature/developing frontal lobe"
"Primitive reflexes may re-emerge in adults following frontal lobe lesions due to loss of inhibition"
"What primitive reflex is described as a \hang on for life\\" reflex? Moro reflex\""
"What primitive reflex is characterized by nipple seeking (movement of head toward one side if cheek or mouth is stroked)? Rooting reflex"
"What primitive reflex is characterized by sucking when the roof of the mouth is touched? Sucking reflex"
"What primitive reflex is characterized by curling of fingers when the palm is stroked? Palmar reflex"
"What primitive reflex is characterized by large toe dorsiflexion and fanning of other toes with plantar stimulation? Plantar reflex"
"Do the toes of an infant dorsiflex or plantar flex in response to plantar stimulation? Dorsiflex (upward)"
"Do the toes of a healthy adult dorsiflex or plantar flex in response to plantar stimulation? Plantar flex (downward)"
"Which primitive reflex is characterized by lateral flexion of the lower body toward the stimulated side upon stroking along one side of the spine while newborn is facedown? Galant reflex"
"What dermatome is found at the posterior half of the skull? C2"
"What dermatome is found at the high turtleneck shirt level? C3"
"What dermatome is found at the low-collar shirt level? C4"
"What dermatome includes the thumbs? C6"
"What dermatome is found at the nipple? T4"
"What dermatome is found at the xiphoid process? T7"
"What dermatome is found at the umbilicus? T10"
"What dermatome is found at the inguinal ligament? L1"
"What dermatome includes the kneecaps? L4"
"What dermatomes are responsible for erections and sensation of the penile/anal zones? S2, S3, S4"
"Which dermatome is important for early appendicitis pain referral? T10 (Umbilicus)"
"Inflammation of the diaphragmatic pleura, gallbladder, pericardium, and mediastinal pleura refer pain to the right shoulder via the phrenic nerve (C3-C5)"
"Which movement disorder presents as subjective restlessness and an intense urge to move? Akathisia"
"Which movement disorder presents as \flapping\\" motion upon extension of the wrists? Asterixis\""
"Asterixis is associated with hepatic encephalopathy, Wilson disease, and other metabolic derangements"
"Which movement disorder presents as sustained, involuntary muscle contractions? Dystonia"
"Blepharospasm is a form of dystonia that involves involuntary contraction of the eyelids"
"Torticollis (cervical dystonia) is a form of dystonia that involves involuntary contracture of the neck"
"Which movement disorder presents as a high-frequency tremor with sustained posture (e.g. outstetched arms)? Essential tremor"
"Essential tremor is worsened::relieved or worsened with movement or when anxious"
"Which type of tremor is often familial? Essential tremor"
"Patients with essential tremor often self-medicate with alcohol, which decreases tremor amplitude"
"What is first-line treatment for essential tremor? Non-selective β-blockers (e.g. propranolol)"
"In addition to β-blockers, essential tremor may also be treated with primidone (a barbiturate)"
"Which type of free nerve ending (C or Aδ) is slow and unmyelinated? C"
"Which type of free nerve ending (C or Aδ) is fast and myelinated? Aδ"
"Which type of sensory receptor senses pain and temperature? Free nerve endings (e.g. C, Aδ)"
"Which type of sensory receptor is located on all skin, epidermis, and some viscera? Free nerve endings"
"Meissner corpuscles are large, myelinated::myelination fibers"
"Meissner corpuscles adapt quickly"
"Which type of sensory receptor is found on hairless (glabrous) skin? Meissner corpuscles"
"Which type of sensory receptor senses dynamic, light touch, and position sense? Meissner corpuscles"
"Pacinian corpuscles are large, myelinated::myelination fibers"
"Pacinian corpuscles adapt quickly"
"Which type of sensory receptor is found on deep skin layers, ligaments, and joints? Pacinian corpuscles"
"Which type of sensory receptor senses vibration and pressure? Pacinian corpuscles"
"Which type of sensory receptor is \onion shaped\\"? Pacinian corpuscles\""
"Merkel discs are large, myelinated::myelination fibers"
"Merkel discs adapt slowly"
"Which type of sensory receptor is found on finger tips and superficial skin? Merkel discs"
"Which type of sensory receptor senses pressure, deep static touch, and position sense? Merkel discs"
"Which type of sensory receptor is characterized as a dendritic ending with a capsule? Ruffini corpuscle"
"Ruffini corpuscles adapt slowly"
"Which type of sensory receptor is found on finger tips and joints? Ruffini corpuscles"
"Which type of sensory receptor senses pressure, slippage of objects along skin, and joint angle change? Ruffini corpuscles"
"Which types of sensory receptor adapt slowly? Ruffini corpuscles and Merkel discs"
"Which types of sensory receptor adapt quickly? Pacinian corpuscles and Meissner corpuscles"
"Which type of sensory receptor (slowly or quickly adapting) sends a continous signal? Slowly adapting"
"Which type of sensory receptor (slowly or quickly adapting) sends a signal at the beginning and end of a stimulus? Quickly adapting"
"The epineurium of a peripheral nerve is made of dense connective tissue that surrounds the entire nerve"
"The perineurium of a peripheral nerve surrounds a fascicle of nerve fibers"
"The endoneurium of a peripheral nerve invests single nerve fiber layers"
"Which peripheral nerve layer must be rejoined in microsurgery for limb attachment? Epineurium"
"Which peripheral nerve layer serves as the blood-nerve permeability barrier? Perineurium"
"Which peripheral nerve layer contains inflammatory infiltrate in Guillain-Barré syndrome? Endoneurium"
"Changes associated with chromatolysis reflect increased protein synthesis in effort to repair the damaged axon"
"Chromatolysis is characterized by displacement of the nucleus to the periphery"
"Chromatolysis is characterized by dispersion of Nissl substance throughout the cytoplasm"
"Chromatolysis is concurrent with Wallerian degeneration"
"What is the embryonic origin of dura mater? Mesoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of arachnoid mater? Neural crest"
"What is the embryonic origin of pia mater? Neural crest"
"Which space in the meninges contains CSF? Subarachnoid space"
"Which space in the meninges is a potential space between the dura mater and skull, containing fat and blood vessels? Epidural space"
"Cerebral perfusion is primarily driven by changes in PCO2"
"PO2 increases cerebral perfusion pressure only when < 50 mmHg"
"Cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) is equal to the difference between MAP and ICP"
"Cerebral perfusion pressure is decreased with decreased MAP"
"Cerebral perfusion pressure is decreased with increased ICP"
"Therapeutic hyper-ventilation may be used to treat acute cerebral edema unresponsive to other interventions"
"Venous sinus thrombosis presents with signs/symptoms of increased ICP (e.g. headache, seizures, focal neurologic deficits)"
"Dural venous sinus thrombosis is associated with hypercoagulable states"
"Vertebral disc herniation is characterized by herniation of the nucleus pulposus through the annulus fibrosus"
"Vertebral disc herniation usually occurs posterolaterally::direction at the level of L4-L5 or L5-S1"
"Vertebral disc herniation typically affects the nerve below the level of herniation"
"Compression of the S1 nerve (e.g. vertebral disc herniation), results in an absent ankle reflex"
"MPTP, a contaminant in illicit drugs, is metabolized to MPP+, which causes Parkinsonian symptoms"
"Which area of the brain is particularly sensitive to damage in Alzheimer disease? Hippocampus"
"Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is associated with increased 14-3-3 protein in CSF"
"Multiple sclerosis is associated with a sensation of a(n) electric shock running down the spine upon neck flexion (Lhermitte phenomenon)"
"Acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculopathy is the most common subtype of Guillain-Barré syndrome"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome is a(n) autoimmune condition that destroys Schwann cells"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome results in symmetric ascending::ascending or descending muscle weakness/paralysis"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome is associated with decreased DTRs beginning in the lower extremities"
"Cranial nerve involvement in Guillain-Barré syndrome commonly results in facial paralysis (50% of cases)"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome may be associated with cardiopulmonary irregularities and fluctuations in blood pressure (autonomic dysfunction)"
"Is Guillain-Barré syndrome typically fatal? No (almost all patients survive)"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome is associated with increased CSF protein and normal cell count, which may cause papilledema"
"The bugs that are associated with Guillain-Barré Syndrome are ICE MyCZ: Influenzavirus CMV EBV Mycoplasma Pneumoniae Campylobacter Zika"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome can arise due to the immunologic phenomenon known as molecular mimicry"
"In addition to post-viral/bacterial infection, Guillain-Barré syndrome also may arise due to vaccination or stress"
"Respiratory support is critical until recovery for patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome"
"In addition to respiratory support, Guillain-Barré syndrome may be treated with plasmapheresis and IV immunoglobulins"
"Are steroids useful in the management of Guillain-Barré syndrome? No"
"Acute disseminated (postinfectious) encephalomyelitis is a multifocal inflammation and demyelination of the CNS after infection or vaccination"
"Acute disseminated (postinfectious) encephalomyelitis presents with rapidly progressive multifocal neurologic symptoms and altered mental status"
"Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is also known as hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN)"
"What is typically the mode of inheritance of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease? Autosomal dominant"
"What structural foot abnormalities are associated with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease? Pes cavus and hammer toes"
"Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease may present with lower extremity weakness (e.g. foot drop) and sensory deficits"
"Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is a group of nerve disorders caused by defective production of proteins involved in the structure and function of peripheral nerves or myelin sheath"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome is a developmental anomaly of neural crest derivatives due to somatic mosaicism"
"Is Sturge-Weber syndrome inherited or sporadic? Sporadic (somatic mosaicism)"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome is caused by an activating mutation in one copy of the GNAQ gene"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome is a neurocutaneous disorder associated with a(n) port-wine stain of the face (nevus flammeus)"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome affects small, capillary-sized blood vessels"
"The port wine stain in Sturge-Weber syndrome classically arises in a CN V1/V2 distribution"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome is a neurocutaneous disorder associated with ipsilateral leptomeningeal angiomas, which may cause seizures or epilepsy"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome is a neurocutaneous disorder associated with episcleral hemangiomas, which may cause increased IOP and early-onset glaucoma"
"The characteristics of Sturge-Weber syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \STURGE\\": S: Sporadic"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome is also known as encephalotrigeminal angiomatosis"
"Which neurocutaneous disorder is associated with somatic mosaicism? Sturge-Weber syndrome"
"Is tuberous sclerosis inherited or sporadic? Inherited"
"What is the mode of inheritance of tuberous sclerosis? Autosomal dominant"
"Tuberous sclerosis is associated with mutations in the TSC1 or TSC2 genes"
"The TSC1 gene encodes for hamartin and is located on chromosome 9 (mutated in tuberous sclerosis)"
"The TSC2 gene encodes for tuberin and is located on chromosome 16 (mutated in tuberous sclerosis)"
"What genetic phenomenon is associated with tuberous sclerosis? Variable expressivity"
"The characteristics of tuberous sclerosis may be remembered with the mnemonic \HAMARTOMAS\\": H: Hamartomas in CNS and skin A: Angiofibromas (adenoma sebaceum) M: Mitral regurgitation::Cardiac A: Ash-leaf spots (hypopigmented macule) R: cardiac Rhabdomyoma T: Tuberous sclerosis O: autosomal dOminant M: Mental retardation (intellectual disability) A: renal Angiomyolipoma S: Seizures"
"What feature of tuberous sclerosis is seen in the image below? Angiofibromas (adenoma sebaceum)"
"What feature of tuberous sclerosis is seen in the image below? Ash-leaf spots (hypopigmented macule)"
"What feature of tuberous sclerosis is seen in the image below? Shagreen patches (patches of localized leathery thickenings)"
"Tuberous sclerosis is a neurocutaneous disorder associated with ungual fibromas, which are flesh-colored lumps emerging from nail folds"
"What astrocyte-derived CNS tumor is associated with tuberous sclerosis? Subependymal giant cell astrocytomas"
"Neurofibromatosis type I is associated with mutations in the NF1 tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 17"
"The NF1 tumor suppressor gene normally codes for neurofibromin, a negative regulator of Reticular Activating System (RAS)"
"What is the mode of inheritance of neurofibromatosis I and II? Autosomal dominant"
"What is the penetrance of neurofibromatosis I? 100%"
"What cutaneous findings are associated with neurofibromatosis I? Cafe-au-lait spots and cutaneous neurofibromas"
"Neurofibromatosis I is associated with optic glioma and Lisch nodules (pigmented iris hamartomas)::eye findings"
"What endocrine disorder is associated with neurofibromatosis I? Pheochromocytoma"
"Which neurocutaneous disorder is associated with cafe-au-lait spots, cutaneous neurofibromas, and Lisch nodules? Neurofibromatosis I"
"Neurofibromatosis type I is also known as von Recklinghausen disease"
"Neurofibromatosis type II is associated with mutations in the NF2 tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 22"
"Neurofibromatosis II is a neurocutaneous disorder associated with bilateral acoustic schwannomas::ear findings"
"Neurofibromatosis II is associated with juvenile cataracts"
"What CNS tumors are associated with neurofibromatosis II? Meningioma and ependymoma"
"Von Hippel-Lindau disease is due to a deletion of the VHL gene on chromosome 3p, leading unregulated activity of HIF1a"
"What is the mode of inheritance of von Hippel-Lindau disease? Autosomal dominant"
"The characteristics of von Hippel-Lindau disease may be remembered with the mnemonic \HARP\\": H: Hemangioblastomas in retina"
"Which feature of von Hippel-Lindau disease is seen in the image below? Hemangioblastoma (high vascularity with hyperchromatic nuclei)"
"What part of the brain is most often affected by hemangioblastoma? Cerebellum"
"What hormone may be produced by hemangioblastomas? Erythropoietin"
"What CNS tumor is seen in the histology slide below? Hemangioblastoma (closely arranged, thin-walled capillaries with minimal intervening parenchyma)"
"Functional pituitary adenoma is most commonly from adenoma of lactotrophs (prolactinoma)"
"Functional pituitary adenoma is less commonly from adenoma of somatotrophs (GH) and corticotrophs (ACTH)"
"Functional pituitary adenoma is rarely from adenoma of thyrotrophs (TSH) and gonadotrophs (FSH, LH)"
"What visual deficit is associated with pituitary adenoma? Bitemporal hemianopsia"
"Sequelae of pituitary adenoma include hyper- and hypopituitarism, which may be caused by pituitary apoplexy"
"Pituitary adenoma is characterized by hyperplasia of only one::one or multiple type(s) of endocrine cell"
"Pinealoma is a tumor of the pineal gland"
"Pinealoma may cause obstructive hydrocephalus due to compression of the cerebral aqueduct"
"Pinealoma::CNS tumor may cause precocious puberty in males due to β-hCG production"
"Pinealoma is a CNS tumor that is similar to germ cell tumors (e.g. testicular seminoma)"
"Cauda equina syndrome is a spinal cord lesion due to compression of spinal roots from L2 and below"
"Cauda equina syndrome may be associated with \saddle (S3-S5) anesthesia\\"\""
"Cauda equina syndrome is commonly associated with uni::uni- or bilateral-lateral symptoms"
"Cauda equina syndrome may present with absent knee and ankle reflexes"
"Cauda equina syndrome is treated with emergent surgery and steroids"
"ID Eye Structure: Physiologic cup"
"ID Eye Structure: Optic disc"
"ID Eye Structure: Macula"
"ID Eye Structure: Fovea"
"ID Eye Structure: Retinal artery"
"ID Eye Structure: Retinal vein"
"Conjunctivitis is inflammation of the conjunctiva, resulting in a red eye"
"Allergic conjunctivitis is characterized by bilateral itchy eyes"
"Bacterial conjunctivitis is characterized by pus"
"Viral conjunctivitis is characterized by sparse mucous discharge and a swollen preauricular node"
"Viral conjunctivitis is the most common type of conjunctivitis"
"What virus commonly causes conjunctivitis? Adenovirus"
"Hyperopia is a refractive error that is also known as \far-sightedness\\"\""
"In hyperopia (farsightedness), light is focused behind the retina"
"Hyperopia is corrected with biconvex (converging) lenses"
"Myopia is a refractive error that is also known as \near-sightedness\\"\""
"In myopia (nearsightedness), light is focused in front of the retina"
"Myopia is corrected with biconcave (diverging) lenses"
"Astigmatism is a refractive error caused by uneven/irregular curvature of the cornea"
"Astigmatism is corrected with cylindrical lenses"
"Presbyopia is aging-related impaired accommodation"
"Presbyopia is primarily due to decreased lens elasticity, changes in lens curvature, and decreased strength of ciliary muscle"
"Patients with presbyopia often need \reading glasses\\" (magnifiers)\""
"Cataracts are painless, often bilateral, opacifications of the lens"
"One risk factor for cataracts is increased age"
"Modifiable risk factors for cataracts include smoking and excessive alcohol use"
"What drug class is associated with cataracts with prolonged use? Corticosteroids"
"One risk factor for cataracts is excessive sunlight"
"What endocrine pathology is associated with cataracts? Diabetes mellitus"
"Congenital risk factors for cataracts include disorders of galactose metabolism"
"Glaucoma is characterized by optic disc atrophy with characteristic cupping"
"Glaucoma is associated with elevated intraocular pressure"
"Glaucoma is associated with progressive peripheral visual field loss if untreated"
"Open-angle glaucoma is associated with increased age"
"Open-angle glaucoma is associated with African-American race and family history"
"Open-angle glaucoma is painless::painful or painless"
"Which form of glaucoma (open- or close-angle) is more common in the U.S.? Open-angle"
"Secondary open-angle glaucoma is due to obstruction of the trabecular meshwork (e.g. by WBCs, RBCs, retinal elements)"
"Primary closed-angle glaucoma is due to enlargement or forward movement of the lens against the iris"
"Closed-angle glaucoma is caused by obstruction of normal aqueous flow through the pupil"
"Secondary closed-angle glaucoma is caused by hypoxia from retinal disease, which induces vasoproliferation in the iris that contracts the angle (e.g. diabetes mellitus, vein occlusion)"
"Chronic closed-angle glaucoma is often asymptomatic with damage to the optic nerve and peripheral vision"
"Acute closed-angle glaucoma is a true ophthalmic emergency"
"Acute closed-angle glaucoma results in a(n) painful::painful or painless, red eye that is fixed and mid-dilated"
"Acute closed-angle glaucoma is characterized by sudden vision loss with halos around lights"
"Closed-angle glaucoma is characterized by frontal headache and a fixed, mid-dilated pupil"
"What catecholamine is contraindicated in closed-angle glaucoma? Epinephrine (mydriatic effect worsens the glaucoma)"
"Uveitis is inflammation of the uvea"
"Anterior uveitis is also known as iritis"
"Posterior uveitis includes choroiditis and/or retinitis"
"Uveitis may present with conjunctival redness and hypopyon, which is the accumulation of pus in the anterior chamber"
"Uveitis is associated with systemic inflammatory disorders (e.g. sarcoidosis, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, HLA-B27 disorders)"
"Uveitis is associated with HLA-B27 disorders"
"Age-related macular degeneration is characterized by degeneration of the macula"
"Age-related macular degeneration causes distortion (metamorphopsia) and eventual loss of central vision"
"Which type of macular degeneration (dry or wet) is more common (>80%)? Dry (nonexudative)"
"Dry macular degeneration is characterized by drusen, which is deposition of yellowish extracellular material in between Bruch's membrane and the retinal pigment epithelium"
"Dry macular degeneration is treated with multivitamin and antioxidant supplements; also smoking cessation if applicable"
"Dry (nonexudative) macular degeneration is associated with gradual::speed decrease in vision"
"Wet (exudative) macular degeneration is associated with rapid::speed decrease in vision"
"Wet macular degeneration is due to bleeding, secondary to choroidal neovascularization"
"Wet macular degeneration is treated with smoking cessation (if applicable) and anti-VEGF injections"
"Diabetic retinopathy is retinal damage due to chronic hyperglycemia"
"Non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy is characterized by leakage of blood from damaged capillaries, resulting in hemorrhages and macular edema"
"Proliferative diabetic retinopathy results in new blood vessel formation with resultant traction on the retina"
"Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is treated with peripheral retinal photocoagulation, surgery, and/or anti-VEGF therapy"
"Retinal vein occlusion is caused by blockage of a central or branch retinal vein due to compression from nearby arterial atherosclerosis"
"Retinal vein occlusion is characterized by retinal hemorrhage and venous engorgement with edema in the affected area"
"Retinal detachment is due to separation of the neurosensory layer of the retina (rods, cones) from the outer pigment epithelium layer"
"Retinal detachment may be secondary to retinal breaks, diabetic traction, and inflammatory effusions"
"Retinal detachment is visualized on funduscopy as crinkling retinal tissue and changes in vessel direction"
"Retinal detachment is more common in patients with high myopia and/or history of head trauma"
"Retinal detachment is often preceded by posterior vitreous detachment, which presents with \flashes\\" and \\"floaters\\"\""
"Retinal detachment eventually results in monocular loss of vision like a \curtain drawn down\\"\""
"What is the treatment for retinal detachment? Surgery (emergency)"
"Central retinal artery occlusion is characterized by acute, painless::painful or painless monocular vision loss"
"Central retinal artery occlusion is characterized by a pale retina with a(n) \cherry red\\" spot at the fovea\""
"Patients with central retinal artery occlusion should be evaluated for a(n) embolic source (e.g. carotid artery atherosclerosis, cardiac vegetation, patent foramen ovale)"
"Retinoblastoma is an eye cancer associated with a(n) white reflex, rather than the normal red reflex"
"Retinitis pigmentosa is a(n) inherited::acquired or inherited retinal degeneration"
"Retinitis pigmentosa is a painless, progressive vision loss beginning with night blindness"
"Retinitis pigmentosa is characterized by bone spicule-shaped deposits around the macula"
"Retinitis is characterized by retinal edema and necrosis, leading to scar formation"
"What class of microorganism is often the cause of retinitis? Viruses (e.g. CMV, HSV, VZV)"
"Papilledema presents with transient vision loss associated with changes in head position, and is secondary to increased intracranial pressure"
"On funduscopy, papilledema is characterized by optic disc swelling / elevation with blurred margins (usually bilateral)"
"Contralateral homonymous hemianopia with macular sparing is a visual deficit associated with posterior cerebral artery infarct"
"Contralateral homonymous hemianopia is a visual deficit associated most commonly with a(n) optic tract or with a(n) lateral geniculate body lesion"
"Contralateral homonymous inferior quadrantanopia is a visual deficit associated with lesion of the parietal lobe (e.g. MCA infarct)"
"Contralateral homonymous superior quadrantanopia is a visual deficit associated with lesion of the temporal lobe (e.g. MCA infarct)"
"Cholesteatoma is an overgrowth of desquamated keratin debris within the middle ear space"
"Cholesteatoma may eventually lead to erosion of the ossicles and mastoid air cells, resulting in conductive::sensorineural or conductive hearing loss"
"Vertigo is a sensation of spinning while actually stationary"
"Which type of vertigo is more common? Peripheral::peripheral or central"
"Peripheral vertigo is most commonly due to benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), which is tested with the Dix-Hallpike maneuver"
"Peripheral vertigo may be caused by vestibular nerve infection"
"Ménière disease is a triad of recurrent vertigo, ear fullness / pain and unilateral hearing loss & tinnitus"
"Peripheral vertigo is caused by inner ear etiology (e.g. Ménière disease, BPPV, vestibular nerve infection, semicircular canal debris)"
"Peripheral vertigo is characterized by delayed nystagmus in the horizontal direction with positional testing"
"Central vertigo is caused by a brain stem or cerebellar lesion (e.g. stroke affecting vestibular nuclei or posterior fossa tumor)"
"Central vertigo is characterized by immediate nystagmus in any direction with positional testing"
"Classical conditioning is a type of conditioning where a natural response is elicited by a conditioned/learned stimulus that was previously presented with an unconditioned stimulus"
"Which type of conditioning usually deals with involuntary responses? Classical conditioning"
"Operant conditioning is a type of conditioning where a particular action is elicited because it produces a punishment or reward"
"Which type of conditioning usually deals with voluntary responses? Operant conditioning"
"Which operant conditioning technique involves addition of a stimulus in efforts to increase behavior? Positive reinforcement"
"Which operant conditioning technique involves removal of a stimulus in efforts to increase behavior? Negative reinforcement"
"Which operant conditioning technique involves addition of a stimulus in efforts to decrease behavior? Positive punishment"
"Which operant conditioning technique involves removal of a stimulus in efforts to decrease behavior? Negative punishment"
"Extinction is the idea that discontinuation of reinforcement (positive or negative) eventually eliminates a behavior"
"Transference is characterized by the patient projecting feelings about formative or other important persons onto the physician"
"Countertransference is characterized by the doctor projecting feelings about formative or other important persons onto the patient"
"Ego defenses, unconscious or conscious, are used to resolve conflict and prevent undesirable feelings (e.g. anxiety, depression)"
"Which ego defense is defined as expressing unacceptable feelings and thoughts through actions? Acting out (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as avoiding the awareness of some painful reality? Denial (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as redirection of emotions/impulses to a neutral person or object? Displacement (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as temporary, drastic change in personality, memory, consciousness, or motor behavior to avoid emotional stress? Dissociation (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as partially remaining at a more childish level of development? Fixation (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as expressing extremely positive thoughts of self/others while ignoring negative thoughts? Idealization (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as a largely unconscious assumption of the characteristics, qualities, or traits of another person or group that is perceived to be more powerful / prestigious? Identification (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as using facts and logic to emotionally distance oneself from a stressful situation? Intellectualization (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as separating feelings from ideas and events? Isolation of affect (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as demonstrating hostile feelings in a non-confrontational manner? Passive aggression (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as misattributing one's own unconscious, undesired thoughts or feelings to another person who does not actually have them? Projection (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as proclaiming logical reasons for actions actually performed for other reasons (usually to avoid self-blame)? Rationalization (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as replacing a warded-off idea or feeling by an unconsciously derived emphasis on its opposite? Reaction formation (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as involuntarily turning back the maturational clock and going back to earlier modes of dealing with the world? Regression (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as involuntarily withholding an idea or feeling from conscious awareness? Repression (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as believing that people are either all good or all bad at different times due to intolerance of ambiguity? Splitting (immature defense)"
"Splitting is a major defense mechanism seen in patients with borderline personality disorder"
"Which ego defense is defined as replacing an unacceptable wish with a course of action that is similar to the wish but does not conflict with one's value system? Sublimation (mature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as alleviating negative feelings via unsolicited generosity which provides gratification? Altruism (mature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as intentionally withholding an idea or feeling from conscious awareness (temporary)? Suppression (mature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as appreciating the amusing nature of an anxiety-provoking or adverse situation? Humor (mature defense)"
"The mature mechanisms of ego defense may be remembered with the mnemonic \SASH\\": S: sublimation A: altruism S: suppression H: humor\""
"Long-term infant deprivation of affection may result in failure to thrive"
"Long-term infant deprivation of affection may result in poor language/socialization skills"
"Long-term infant deprivation of affection may result in lack of basic trust"
"Long-term infant deprivation of affection may result in reactive attachment disorder, where the infant is emotionally withdrawn and unresponsive to comfort"
"Infant deprivation for > 6 months can lead to irreversible changes"
"Severe infant deprivation can result in infant death"
"Evidence of physical abuse in a child includes fractures (e.g. ribs, long bone spiral, multiple in different stages of healing)"
"Evidence of physical abuse in a child includes bruises (e.g. trunk, ear, neck; in pattern of implement)"
"Evidence of physical abuse in a child includes burns (e.g. cigarette, buttocks/thighs)"
"Evidence of Shaken Baby Syndrome includes subdural hematomas, retinal hemorrhages, cervical spine injury, and posterior rib fractures"
"Children who are victims of physical abuse often avoid eye contact on exam"
"The abuser in the case of physical abuse of a child is usually the biological mother"
"40% of deaths related to child abuse or neglect occur in children < 1 year(s) old"
"Evidence of sexual abuse includes genital, anal, or oral trauma"
"Evidence of sexual abuse includes urinary tract and sexually transmitted infections"
"The abuser in the case of sexual abuse is usually a(n) male::gender who is known to the victim"
"What is the peak incidence for sexual abuse? 9 - 12 years old::age"
"Child neglect is failure to provide a child with adequate food, shelter, supervision, education, and/or affection"
"What is the most common form of child maltreatment? Child neglect"
"Evidence of child neglect includes poor hygiene, malnutrition, withdrawal, impaired social/emotional development, and failure to thrive"
"Does child abuse need to be reported to local child protective services? Yes"
"Does child neglect or child abuse need to be reported to local child protective services? Yes"
"Vulnerable child syndrome is when the parents perceive the child as especially susceptible to illness or injury"
"Vulnerable child syndrome often results in missed school or overuse of medical services"
"Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has an onset before age 12"
"Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by hyperactivity, impulsivity, and/or inattention in multiple settings (school, home, places of worship, etc.) for > 6 months::duration"
"Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is associated with normal intelligence that coexists with difficulties in school"
"Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) continues into adulthood in 50% of cases"
"ADHD is treated with stimulants +/- cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)"
"Autism spectrum disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by poor social interactions, social communication deficits, repetitive/ritualized behaviors, and restricted interests"
"Autism spectrum disorder must present in early childhood::age group"
"Autism spectrum disorder is more commonly accompanied by intellectual disability"
"Autism spectrum disorder rarely is accompanied by unusual abilities (savants)"
"Autism spectrum disorder is more common in boys::gender"
"Autism spectrum disorder is associated with increased head/brain size"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Rett syndrome? X-linked dominant"
"Rett syndrome is almost exclusively seen in females::gender"
"The majority of cases of Rett syndrome are caused by de novo mutations in meCP2"
"Rett syndrome presents with regression, including loss of development and verbal abilities"
"Rett syndrome often presents with verbal regression, intellectual disability, ataxia, and stereotyped hand-wringing"
"Rett syndrome symptoms usually become apparent between ages 1 to 4"
"Conduct disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by repetitive and pervasive behavior that violates the basic rights of others or societal norms"
"After age 18, conduct disorder is often reclassified as antisocial personality disorder"
"What is the treatment for both conduct disorder and antisocial personality disorder? Psychotherapy (e.g. CBT)"
"Oppositional defiant disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by an enduring pattern of hostile, defiant behavior towards authority figures in the absence of serious violations of societal norms for > 6 months::duration"
"What is the treatment for oppositional defiant disorder? Psychotherapy (e.g. CBT) and parent management training"
"Separation anxiety disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by overwhelming fear of separation from home or an attachment figure lasting > 4 weeks"
"Separation anxiety disorder can be normal behavior up to age 3 - 4"
"Which childhood psychiatric disorder may lead to factitious physical complaints to avoid school? Separation anxiety disorder"
"Treatment for separation anxiety disorder includes CBT, play therapy, and family therapy"
"Tourette's syndrome is a childhood disorder characterized by sudden, rapid, recurrent, nonrhythmic, stereotyped motor and vocal tics that persist for > 1 year::duration"
"The onset of Tourette's syndrome symptoms is before age 18"
"Tourette's syndrome may present with coprolalia, which is involuntary obscene speech (40% of patients)"
"What other psychiatric disorders are associated with Tourette syndrome? OCD and ADHD::2"
"Non-pharmacological treatment for Tourette's syndrome includes psychoeducation and behavioral therapy"
"Pharmacological treatment for intractable and distressing tics in Tourette's syndrome may include high-potency antipsychotics"
"Pharmacological treatment for intractable and distressing tics in Tourette's syndrome may include α2-adrenergic agonists"
"Disruptive mood dysregulation disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by severe and recurrent temper outbursts out of proportion to a situation"
"The onset of disruptive mood dysregulation disorder symptoms is before age 10"
"Children with disruptive mood dysregulation disorder are constantly angry and irritable between outbursts"
"Treatment for disruptive mood dysregulation disorder includes psychostimulants, antipsychotics, and CBT"
"What neurotransmitter is decreased in Alzheimer disease? Acetylcholine"
"What neurotransmitters are decreased in depression? Serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine"
"What neurotransmitter is increased in anxiety? Norepinephrine"
"What neurotransmitters are decreased in anxiety? Serotonin and GABA"
"What neurotransmitter is increased in Huntington disease? Dopamine"
"What neurotransmitters are decreased in Huntington disease? Acetylcholine, GABA, and substance P"
"What neurotransmitter is increased in Parkinson disease? Acetylcholine"
"What neurotransmitters are decreased in Parkinson disease? Dopamine and serotonin"
"What neurotransmitter is increased in schizophrenia? Dopamine"
"Orientation describes a patient's ability to know person, place, and time"
"What is the order in which loss of orientation to person, place, and time occurs? Time -> place -> person"
"Retrograde amnesia is the inability to remember things that occurred before a CNS insult"
"Anterograde amnesia is the inability to remember things that occurred after a CNS insult (decreased acquisition of new memory)"
"Korsakoff syndrome causes both retro- and anterograde amnesia, however, anterograde amnesia is more prominent"
"Confabulations are characteristic of Korsakoff syndrome"
"Dissociative amnesia is an inability to recall important personal information, usually subsequent to severe trauma or stress"
"Dissociative fugue is an abrupt traveling or wandering during a period of dissociative amnesia; associated with traumatic circumstances"
"Dissociative identity disorder is characterized by the presence of 2 or more distinct identities or personality states, usually following psychological trauma"
"Dissociative identity disorder is more common in women::gender"
"Depersonalization/derealization disorder is characterized by persistent feelings of detachment from one's own body, thoughts, perceptions, and actions (depersonalization) or one's environment (derealization)"
"Which psychiatric disorder, delirium or dementia, is characterized by acute onset \waxing and waning\\" level of consciousness? Delirium\""
"Which psychiatric disorder, delirium or dementia, is characterized by decreased intellectual function without affecting level of consciousness? Dementia"
"Is dementia typically reversible or irreversible? Irreversible"
"Is delirium typically reversible or irreversible? Reversible"
"Which psychiatric disorder, delirium or dementia, is characterized by disorganized thinking, hallucinations, disturbances in sleep wake cycle, cognitive dysfunction, and agitation? Delirium"
"Which psychiatric disorder, delirium or dementia, is characterized by memory deficits, apraxia, aphasia, agnosia, behavioral/personality changes, and impaired judgment? Dementia"
"Can a patient with dementia develop delirium? Yes"
"Delirium::dementia or delirium is usually secondary to other illness (e.g. CNS disease, infection, trauma, substance abuse/withdrawal, metabolic disturbances, hemorrhage, urinary/fecal retention)"
"Delirium::Dementia or delirium is associated with a(n) diffuse, slowing pattern on EEG"
"Dementia::dementia or delirium is associated with a(n) normal pattern on EEG"
"Delirium::dementia or delirium is the most common presentation of altered mental status in an inpatient setting (especially in the ICU and with prolonged hospital stays)"
"What is the treatment for delirium? Address the underlying condition"
"Delirium may be caused by medications, such as anticholinergics, especially in the elderly"
"What GI pathology is an irreversible cause of dementia? Wilson disease (hepatolenticular degeneration)"
"What infectious disease is an irreversible cause of dementia? HIV"
"In elderly patients with suspected dementia, TSH and B12 levels should be measured to rule out other possible causes"
"In elderly patients with suspected dementia, a(n) RPR test should be administered to exclude neurosyphilis if there's high clinical suspicion"
"In elderly patients with suspected dementia, screening for depression should be performed to rule out other possible causes"
"What endocrine pathology is a reversible cause of dementia? Hypothyroidism"
"What infectious disease is a reversible cause of dementia? Neurosyphilis"
"What form of hydrocephalus is a reversible cause of dementia? Normal pressure hydrocephalus"
"Reversible dementia may occur with deficiencies in vitamins B1, B3, and B12"
"Psychosis is a distorted perception of reality characterized by delusions, hallucinations, and/or disorganized thought or speech"
"What feature of psychosis is characterized by unique, false, fixed idiosyncratic beliefs that persist despite the facts and are not typical of a patient's culture or religion? Delusions"
"What feature of psychosis is characterized by speech that is incoherent (\word salad\\")"
"What feature of psychosis is characterized by perceptions in the absence of external stimuli? Hallucinations"
"Illusions are misperceptions of real external stimuli"
"Visual hallucinations are more commonly a feature of medical illness than psychiatric illness (psychiatric or medical)"
"Auditory hallucinations are more commonly a feature of psychiatric illness than medical illness (psychiatric or medical)"
"Olfactory hallucinations often occur as an aura of temporal lobe epilepsy and in brain tumors"
"Gustatory hallucinations are rare, but may be seen in epilepsy"
"Tactile hallucinations are common in alcohol withdrawal and stimulant use (e.g. cocaine, amphetamines)"
"Hypnagogic hallucinations occur while going to sleep; sometimes seen in narcolepsy"
"Hypnopompic hallucinations occur while waking from sleep; sometimes seen in narcolepsy"
"Schizophrenia is a chronic mental disorder with periods of psychosis, disturbed behavior and thought, and decline in functioning lasting > 6 months::duration"
"Schizophrenia is associated with increased dopaminergic activity"
"Schizophrenia is associated with decreased dendritic branching"
"Diagnosis of schizophrenia requires at least 2 of following, and at least 1 of these should include 1 to 3: - Positive symptoms- 1. Delusions 2. Hallucinations 3. Disorganized speech 4. Disorganized or catatonic behavior 5. Negative symptoms (affective flattening, avolition, anhedonia, asociality, alogia)"
"Brief psychotic disorder is symptoms of schizophrenia lasting < 1 month::duration with >1 positive symptom"
"Brief psychotic disorder is usually stress related"
"Schizophreniform disorder is symptoms of schizophrenia lasting from 1 to 6::duration months"
"Schizoaffective disorder meets criteria for schizophrenia in addition to major mood disorder (major depressive or bipolar)"
"Diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder requires at least 2 weeks::duration of psychotic symptoms without major mood episode"
"If episodes of psychosis only occur during a major mood episode, the diagnosis is either major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder with psychosis"
"Are hallucinations involving a dead relative during a period of bereavement considered normal? Yes (within 6 months)"
"Schizophrenia/psychosis in teens is associated with frequent cannabis use"
"Is the prevalence of schizophrenia more common in a particular race? No"
"Is schizophrenia more common in men or women? Men"
"Schizophrenia is characterized by ventriculomegaly on CT"
"What group of drugs is the first line treatment for schizophrenia? Atypical antipsychotics (e.g. risperidone)"
"Delusional disorder is a fixed, persistent, false belief system lasting > 1 month::duration with otherwise normal functioning"
"Delusion disorder typically presents with non-bizarre::(bizarre or non-bizarre) delusions"
"Delusions can be shared by individuals in close relationships; termed folie à deux"
"SpeA and C of Streptococcus pyogenes are considered superantigens"
"What is the function of GAS M-protein? Antiphagocytic, inhibits activation of complement::2"
"The antiphagocytic virulence factors for streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) are M-protein, hyaluronic acid capsule::2"
"What GAS virulence factor can be given to patients with clots? Streptokinase: converts plasminogen to plasmin, which is fibrinolytic"
"Streptokinase is a virulence factor for what gram (+) species? GAS"
"Scarlet fever is associated with what toxin? Erythrogenic exotoxin (SPE)::specific"
"Patient with sore-throat has red-rash that begins on the trunk and neck, then spreads to the extremities before eventually desquamating Scarlet Fever"
"What clinical syndrome is associated with \beefy-red tongue\\" concurrent with pharyngitis? Scarlet Fever\""
"Toxic Shock Like Syndrome is caused by what organism? GAS (S. pyogenes)"
"Infection caused by Strep pyogenes that presents with erythematous, sandpaper-like rash with fever and sore throat: Scarlet Fever"
"Erysipelas is an infection of the upper dermis and superficial lymphatics caused by GAS, and presents with a well-defined demarcation between infected and normal skin"
"Cellulitis::what skin pathology characterized by an infection of the deeper dermis and subcutaneous tissues is caused Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes::by what (2) organisms?"
"Necrotizing fasciitis is caused by GAS and enters through trauma openings causing infection and ultimately necrotic skin with large bullae"
"Rheumatic fever is a type II HR that is preceded by GAS pharyngitis"
"Post-streptococcal Glomerulonephritis is a type III HS that is preceded by GAS pharyngitis or skin infection"
"What GAS virulence factor causes antibody production that cross-reacts with myosin in the heart, causing rheumatic fever? M-protein"
"PSGN (post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis) is a complication of GAS pharyngitis or skin infection that presents with hematuria (cola-colored urine) and facial swelling"
"GAS erythrogenic toxin genes are encoded in a(n) lysogenic::lytic or lysogenic phage through specialized transduction"
"What drug class do diazepam, lorazepam, temazepam, and oxazepam belong to? Benzodiazepines"
"The short-acting benzodiazepines may be remembered with the mnemonic \ATOM\\": A: Alprazolam T: Triazolam O: Oxazepam M: Midazolam\""
"What drug class does chlordiazepoxide belong to? Benzodiazepines"
"Short-acting benzodiazepines have a(n) higher potential for addiction than long-acting"
"Benzodiazepines are metabolized by the liver"
"Long-acting benzodiazepines are typically metabolized by the liver into active metabolites"
"Benzodiazepines exert their effects via binding to an allosteric site on the GABAA receptor"
"Benzodiazepines enhance::enhance or inhibit the action of GABAA"
"The GABAA receptor is a ligand-gated Cl- channel"
"Benzodiazepines increase Cl- conductance by increasing the frequency::frequency or duration of channel opening"
"Benzodiazepines, barbiturates, and alcohol all bind different allosteric sites of the GABAA receptor"
"Non-specific symptoms of alcohol withdrawal, such as anxiety, insomnia, and tremors, typically occur after 3 - 36 hours"
"Seizures secondary to alcohol withdrawal typically occur after 6 - 48 hours"
"Delirium tremens, secondary to alcohol withdrawal, typically occurs after 48 - 96 hours"
"Long-acting benzodiazepines are useful in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal (if no cirrhosis or alcoholic hepatitis)"
"IV administration of benzodiazepines, is useful for management of alcohol withdrawal, seizures, and anesthesia"
"IV benzodiazepines, such as lorazepam and diazepam, are the 1st-line agents for treatment for acute status epilepticus"
"Which type of generalized seizure is acutely treated with benzodiazepines? Status epilepticus"
"IV benzodiazepines can be used in general anesthesia (muscle relaxation, amnesia)"
"IV benzodiazepines (e.g. midazolam) may be used to create a state of conscious sedation for minor procedures and surgeries (e.g. colonoscopy, endoscopy)"
"Benzodiazepines may be used as a hypnotic to treat insomnia, but they are not first line treatment due to physical dependence"
"Benzodiazepines may be used to treat parasomnias in children, such as sleep walking and night terrors"
"Benzodiazepines may be used to treat spasticity caused by UMN disorders (e.g. MS, stroke, spinal cord trauma, tetanus)"
"Benzodiazepines may be used to treat generalized anxiety disorder and panic disorder, though SSRIs and SNRIs are first line"
"What pregnancy complication may be treated with benzodiazepines? Eclampsia (not first line)"
"Benzodiazepines can cause tolerance by downregulating GABAA receptors"
"Do benzodiazepines have addictive potential? Yes"
"Compared to barbiturates, benzodiazepines have less risk of respiratory depression and coma"
"Benzodiazepines can cause dose-dependent antero-grade amnesia"
"Elderly patients are more sensitive to the side effects of benzodiazepines (e.g. somnolence, confusion, disorientation)"
"Benzodiazepines can cause central ataxia, leading to increased risk of falls in the elderly"
"Benzodiazepines may have additive CNS depression effects with alcohol, barbiturates, 1st generation antihistamines, and neuroleptics"
"Flumazenil is a competitive antagonist at the benzodiazepine site of the GABA-A receptor, which is used to treat overdose or reverse sedative effects of benzodiazepines AND nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics::2"
"Flumazenil can precipate seizures by causing acute benzodiazepine withdrawal"
"The benzodiazepines that are safe to use in patients with liver disease may be remembered with the mnemonic \LOT\\": L: Lorazepam O: Oxazepam T: Temazepam\""
"The three nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics are Zolpidem, Zaleplon, and esZopiclone"
"Nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics exert their effects via binding to an allosteric site on the GABAA receptor"
"The nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics bind to the same GABAA receptor allosteric site as benzodiazepines (BZ1 subtype)"
"Nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics are primarily used for the treatment of insomnia"
"Nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics have a(n) short duration of action due to rapid metabolism by the liver"
"Are zaleplon and zolpidem (nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics) useful for sleep onset or sleep mainteinance? Sleep onset"
"Is eszopiclone (non-benzodiazepine hypnotic) useful for sleep onset or sleep maintenance? Both :)"
"Which non-benzodiazepine hypnotic has the longest half-life? Eszopiclone"
"Elderly patients are more sensitive to the side effects of nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics (e.g. cognitive impairment, headache, delirium)"
"Nonbenzodiazepines hypnotics can cause central ataxia, leading to increased risk of falls in the elderly"
"Nonbenzodiazepene hypnotics should not be combined with other CNS depressants"
"Compared to benzodiazepines, nonbenzodiazepine hynotics are less likely to cause tolerance"
"Compared to benzodiazepines, nonbenzodiazepine hynotics are less likely to affect the sleep cycle"
"Compared to benzodiazepines, nonbenzodiazepine hynotics are less likely to cause dependence"
"Flumazenil reverses the sedative actions of nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics"
"Do nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics cause significant day-after psychomotor depression and/or amnesia? No"
"Ramelteon is a(n) melatonin receptor agonist used to treat insomnia"
"Ramelteon binds the MT1 and MT2 receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus"
"Does ramelteon have addictive potential? No"
"Compared to other hypnotics, ramelteon has relatively few side effects and is safe to use in geriatric patients"
"Suvorexant is a(n) orexin (hypocretin) receptor antagonist used to treat insomnia"
"Does suvorexant have addictive potential? No"
"Suvorexant is contraindicated in patients with narcolepsy"
"Suvorexant is not recommended in patients with liver disease"
"Suvorexant is contraindicated in patients taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors"
"Adverse effects of suvorexant include CNS depression, headache, dizziness, abnormal dreams, and upper respiratory tract infection"
"What drug class do phenobarbital, pentobarbital, and secobarbital belong to? Barbiturates"
"What drug class does thiopental belong to? Barbiturates"
"Barbiturates exert their effects via binding to an allosteric site on the GABAA receptor"
"Barbiturates enhance::enhance or inhibit the action of GABAA"
"Barbiturates increase Cl- conductance by increasing the duration::frequency or duration of channel opening"
"Barbiturates have long durations of action and thus \hangover\\" effects are more common\""
"IV thiopental is a barbiturate that can be used for induction of anesthesia"
"Thiopental is a barbiturate with a rapid onset and duration of action due to high potency and high lipid solubility"
"Plasma levels of thiopental decrease rapidly due to redistribution to skeletal muscle and adipose"
"Phenobarbital is a barbiturate used in the acute treatment of partial and tonic-clonic seizures"
"Phenobarbital is a first line agent for treatment of seizures in neonates"
"Primidone is a barbiturate used to treat seizures and essential tremor"
"Besides CNS depression, side effects of barbiturates include cardiac and respiratory depression, which can be fatal"
"Barbiturates can cause severe CNS depression (e.g. coma) and should be avoided in elderly patients"
"Does chronic barbiturate use lead to tolerance? Yes"
"Do barbiturates have addictive potential? Yes"
"Barbiturates are a(n) inducer of cytochrome P450 and thus may have many drug interactions"
"The treatment for barbiturate overdose is mainly supportive treatment, but excretion can be enhanced with urinary alkalinization"
"Barbiturates are contraindicated in patients with porphyrias::hematologic pathology"
"Mood disorder is characterized by an abnormal range of moods or internal emotional states and loss of control over them"
"A manic episode is a distinct period of abnormally and persistently elevated, expansive, or irritable mood with persistently increased activity or energy for at least 1 week::duration"
"Diagnosis of a(n) manic episode requires an elevated and/or irritable mood plus at least three \DIG FAST\\" criteria: D: Distractibility I: Irresponsibility (seeks pleasure without regard to consequences) G: Grandiosity (inflated self-esteem) F: Flight of ideas (racing thoughts) A: Agitation/increased Activity S: Sleeplessness T: Talkativeness or pressured speech\""
"Do patients with manic episodes need to be hospitalized? Yes (psychiatric emergency)"
"What is the general treatment for manic episodes? Atypical antipsychotics"
"Manic episodes may present similarly to stimulant intoxication"
"A(n) hypomanic episode is similar to a manic episode except mood disturbance doesn't cause marked impairment in social or occupational functioning"
"Does a hypomanic episode present with psychotic features? No"
"A hypomanic episode must last at least 4 consecutive days"
"Bipolar I disorder is defined by presence of at least 1 manic episode +/- a hypomanic episode or depressive episode"
"Bipolar II disorder is defined by the presence of a hypomanic and a depressive episode"
"Does a patient with bipolar disorder typically return to normal mood and functioning between episodes? Yes"
"Patients with bipolar disorder have a high risk of suicide"
"What is the general treatment for bipolar disorder? Mood stabilizers"
"In addition to mood stabilizers, antipsychotics may be used as an adjunctive therapy for bipolar disorder"
"Use of antidepressants in patients with bipolar disorder can precipitate acute mania"
"Cyclothymic disorder is a milder form of bipolar disorder lasting at least 2 years::duration, fluctuating between mild depressive and hypomanic symptoms"
"Does a patient with cyclothymia typically return to normal mood and functioning between episodes? No"
"{{c10::Major depressive disorder episodes are characterized by {{c11::depressed mood or {{c12::anhedonia and at least {{c13::four other \SIG E CAPS\\" symptoms lasting > 2 weeks::duration S: Sleep changes I: Interest decreases (anhedonia) G: Guilt or feelings of worthlessness E: Energy loss or fatigue C: Concentration problems A: Appetite/weight changes P: Psychomotor retardation or agitation S: Suicidal ideations\""
"Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) is depression, often milder, lasting at least 2 years::duration"
"Persistent depressive disorder is also known as dysthymia"
"What is the first line treatment for major depressive disorder? CBT + SSRIs"
"Electroconvulsive therapy is a(n) rapid acting method that may be used to treat certain patients with treatment resistant major depressive disorder"
"Atypical depression is associated with mood reactivity, which is being able to experience improved mood in response to positive events, albeit briefly"
"Atypical depression is associated with hyper-somnia"
"Atypical depression is associated with hyper-phagia"
"Atypical depression is associated with leaden paralysis (feeling of heaviness in limbs) and sensitivity to rejection"
"What is the first-line treatment for atypical depression? CBT and SSRIs"
"The onset of postpartum mood disturbances is within 4 weeks of delivery"
"Postpartum blues is characterized by depressed affect, tearfulness, and fatigue starting 2-3 days after delivery for < 2 weeks"
"What is the treatment for postpartum blues? Supportive"
"Postpartum depression is characterized by depressed affect, anxiety, and poor concentration for > 2 weeks"
"What is the treatment for postpartum depression? CBT and SSRIs"
"Postpartum psychosis is characterized by mood-congruent delusions, hallucinations, and thoughts of harming the baby or self"
"Risks factors for postpartum psychosis include first pregnancy, history of bipolar or psychotic disorder, family history, and recent discontinuation of psychotropic medication"
"What is the treatment for postpartum psychosis? Hospitalization and antipsychotics"
"The five stages of grief per the Kubler-Ross model are denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance"
"Pathologic grief is persistent (> 12 months time) and causes functional impairment"
"Can a person with grief meet the criteria for major depressive episode? Yes"
"Electroconvulsive therapy is used mainly for treatment-refractory depression, depression with psychotic symptoms, and acute suicidality"
"Electroconvulsive therapy produces a(n) grand mal seizure in a patient under anesthesia"
"Adverse effects of electroconvulsive therapy include temporary headache, disorientation, and partial amnesia; usually resolves within 6 months"
"Is electroconvulsive therapy safe to use during pregnancy and elderly? Yes"
"Is propofol used for the induction or maintenance of anesthesia? Both :)"
"Propofol and etomidate are IV anesthetics that exert their effects via potentiation of the GABAA receptor complex"
"Propofol causes profound vaso-dilation of arteries and veins"
"Which IV anesthetic causes profound vasodilation (and thus hypotension)? Propofol"
"Compared to thiopental, propofol has less post-operative nausea"
"Is etomidate used for the induction or maintenance of anesthesia? Induction"
"Which IV anesthetic preserves cardiovascular stability? Etomidate"
"Is ketamine used for the induction or maintenance of anesthesia? Induction"
"Ketamine is an IV anesthetic that exerts its effect via inhibition of NMDA receptors"
"Ketamine (an arylcyclohexylamine) is a PCP analog that causes \dissociative anesthesia\\"\""
"Ketamine is an IV anesthetic that can cause disorientation, hallucinations, and unpleasant dreams"
"Ketamine causes cardiovascular stimulation::depression or stimulation"
"Ketamine causes increased cerebral blood flow"
"Midazolam is a benzodiazepine that may be used as an IV anesthetic"
"Benzodiazepines (e.g. midazolam) can cause severe post-operative respiratory depression and hypo-tension"
"Thiopental is a barbiturate that may be used as an IV anesthetic"
"Is thiopental used for the induction or maintenance of anesthesia? Induction"
"Thiopental causes decreased cerebral blood flow"
"Staphylococcus aureus shows what kind of hemolysis pattern? B-hemolytic"
"Staph aureus is the only Staph organism that is coagulase +"
"Which bacteria turns bright yellow on mannitol salt agar: Staphylococcus aureus"
"Staphylcoccus aureus will turn Mannitol agar bright yellow"
"Where does Staphylococcus aureus normally colonize? Nares"
"Which S. aureus toxin nonspecifically binds MHC-II (on APCs) and the T-cell receptor producing cytokine storm and toxic shock: TSST-1 superantigen"
"Scalded skin syndrome is caused by Staphylococcus aureus::which organism?"
"What kind of toxin produces scalded-skin syndrome? Exfoliative toxin A and B"
"What is the MOA of exfoliative toxin in Scalded-Skin Syndrome? Destroys keratinocyte attachments in stratum granulosum, causing skin to slough off"
"Enterotoxin is a pre-formed heat stable exotoxin found in Staphylococcus aureus that causes food poisoning from eating meat, cream-based foods"
"Rash that occurs in neonates; will have + Nikolsky sign: Scalded-Skin Syndrome"
"Protein A is a virulence factor of Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the function of Protein A? binds IgG Fc region, preventing opsonization and ultimately phagocytosis"
"S. aureus pneumonia is most common after Influenza infection (post-viral)"
"Staphylococcus aureus is the most common cause of septic arthritis in adults"
"Septic arthritis is an invasion of the synovial membrane which produces a yellow, turbid::2 things synovial fluid with high neutrophils::histo finding, most commonly found with infection by Staphylococcus aureus"
"Which bug is the most common cause of skin abscesses? Staphylococcus aureus"
"Furuncles and carbuncles are associated with what coagulase + organism? Staph aureus"
"Acute::Acute or Subacute bacterial endocarditis::cardiovascular pathology is most commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus"
"What inhaled anesthetic is commonly known as \laughing gas\\"? Nitrous oxide (N2O)\""
"Most common etiology of endocarditis from S. aureus: IVDU"
"Which valve is most commonly affected with S. aureus endocarditis? Tricuspid"
"Which bug is the most common cause of osteomyelitis? Staphylococcus aureus"
"Lactational mastitis occurs from breast-feeding and is most commonly associated with Staphylococcus aureus::which bug"
"Common etiologies of Toxic shock syndrome? Leaving gauze, sutures, or tampons in for too long::what objects cause it"
"What foods can cause S. aureus gastroenteritis? Meats, cream-based foods"
"How does MRSA obtain methicillin resistance? Alters PBP (penicillin-binding proteins)"
"Alteration of penicillin-binding proteins (PBP) allows methicillin resistance in MRSA"
"What is the treatment for Staph aureus infections (not MRSA)? Nafcillin"
"What is the treatment for MRSA (methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus)? Vancomycin"
"Group B Strep (S. agalactiae) hydrolyzes sodium hippurate"
"Group B Strep (S. agalactiae) has a positive CAMP test, meaning it enhances the zone of hemolysis when plated with S. aureus"
"What is the most common cause of meningitis in neonates? Group B Strep (Streptococcus agalactiae)"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) produces what neonatal respiratory complication? Neonatal pneumonia"
"What age demographic is typically affected with Strep agalactiae (GBS)? Neonates"
"What drug class do halothane, enflurane, methoxyflurane belong to? Inhaled anesthetics"
"Inhaled anesthetics with higher solubility in blood have a(n) slower onset of action"
"Inhaled anesthetics with higher solubility in blood have a(n) slower recovery"
"Inhaled anesthetics with lower solubility in blood have a(n) faster onset of action"
"Inhaled anesthetics with lower solubility in blood have a(n) faster recovery"
"The solubility of an inhaled anesthetic may also be referred to as the blood:gas partition coefficient"
"Does the blue curve represent an inhaled anesthetic with a high or low blood solubility? Low (quickly saturated, e.g. N2O)"
"Does the red curve represent an inhaled anesthetic with a high or low blood solubility? High (slowly saturated, e.g. halothane)"
"Minimal alveolar concentration (MAC) is the dose of inhaled anesthetic that causes 50% of patients to become unresponsive to noxious stimuli"
"Drugs with increased solubility in lipids have increased potency"
"Potency is inversely proportional to minimal alveolar concentration (MAC)"
"Halothane is an example of an inhaled anesthetic with high lipid and blood solubility"
"Nitrous oxide (N2O) is an example of an inhaled anesthetic with low lipid and blood solubility"
"Inhaled anesthetics can cause myocardial depression::stimulation or depression"
"Inhaled anesthetics can cause respiratory depression::stimulation or depression"
"Inhaled anesthetics can cause increased cerebral blood flow"
"The inhaled anesthetic halothane is most commonly associated with hepatotoxicity as an adverse effect"
"The inhaled anesthetic enflurane can induce seizures and cause nephro-toxicity as adverse effects"
"The inhaled anesthetic methoxyflurane is associated with nephrotoxicity as an adverse effect"
"The inhaled anesthetic N2O is associated with expansion of trapped gas in a body cavity as an adverse effect"
"Malignant hyperthermia is a skeletal muscle hypersensitivity to volatile anesthetics"
"In addition to inhaled anesthetics, malignant hyperthermia may also be caused by succinylcholine (muscle relaxant)"
"Malignant hyperthermia is usually related to a defect in ryanodine receptors, which causes increased Ca2+ release from the SR"
"Excessive heat production in malignant hyperthermia induces fever and muscle damage (e.g. rhabdomyolysis)"
"Malignant hyperthermia is treated by dantrolene, which is a(n) ryanodine receptor antagonist that prevents release of Ca2+ from the SR"
"What is the mode of inheritance of malignant hyperthermia? Autosomal dominant"
"What genetic phenomenon is associated with malignant hyperthermia? Incomplete penetrance"
"Which opioid receptor does β-endorphin bind to? μ-opioid receptor"
"Which opioid receptor does enkephalin bind to? δ-opioid receptor"
"Which opioid receptor does dynorphin bind to? κ-opioid receptor"
"The μ-opioid receptor mediates most of the clinical and adverse effects"
"Opiate receptor activation causes opening of K+ channels"
"Opiate receptor activation causes closure of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels"
"Opiate receptor activation causes closure of pre-synaptic Ca2+ channels, which decreases release of neurotransmitters (e.g. ACh, NE, 5-HT, glutamate, substance P)"
"Fentanyl and morphine are opioid agonists that may be used for pain relief"
"Loperamide and diphenoxylate are μ-opioid agonists that can be used as anti-diarrheals"
"Codeine and dextromethorphan are opioid agonists that may be used as anti-tussives"
"In addition to opioid agonist activity, dextromethorphan also antagonizes NMDA receptors"
"Opioid analgesics may be used to treat acute pulmonary edema"
"Opioid analgesics are associated with CNS depression as an adverse effect"
"Opioid analgesics may cause significant dose-dependent respiratory depression::depression or stimulation"
"Most opioid analgesics cause miosis::pupil size"
"What opioid analgesic causes mydriasis? Meperidine"
"What change in bowel movement is associated with activation of μ-opioid receptors? Constipation"
"What biliary tree complication may be caused by opiates? Biliary colic or Sphincter of Oddi Spasm"
"Do opiates have addictive potential? Yes"
"Does chronic opiate use lead to tolerance? Yes"
"What adverse effects of opiates persist even after tolerance develops? Miosis and constipation"
"Chronic opioid use can cause opioid-induced hyperalgesia, which is abnormal pain sensitivity"
"What change in bowel movement is associated with opioid withdrawal? Diarrhea"
"Opioid withdrawal is associated with mydriasis::pupil size"
"Opioid withdrawal is associated with fever, yawning, rhinorrhea, lacrimation, and piloerection (\cold turkey\\")\""
"Methadone is a long-acting μ-receptor agonist used to attenuate opioid withdrawal symptoms"
"Methadone and buprenorphine are useful for opioid detoxication due to their long half lives"
"Buprenorphine is a long-acting partial μ-opioid agonist used to attenuate opioid withdrawal symptoms"
"Neonatal abstinence syndrome occurs due to exposure to opiate drugs while in the mother's womb"
"Neonatal abstinence syndrome presents with diarrhea, sweating, irritability, and tachypnea::respiratory rate"
"Buprenorphine, and butorphanol are μ-opioid partial agonists"
"Partial opioid agonists can cause opioid withdrawal symptoms if the patient is also taking a full opioid agonist"
"Naloxone is a μ-opioid inverse agonist used to treat acute opioid toxicity (can precipitate withdrawal)"
"Naltrexone is a μ-opioid antagonist that helps maintain abstinence in opioid addicts once detoxified"
"Naltrexone is a μ-opioid antagonist that helps reduce cravings for alcohol and nicotine"
"Naltrexone is a μ-opioid antagonist that can help with weight loss"
"Tramadol is a very weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that also inhibits 5-HT and norepinephrine reuptake"
"What is the clinical use for tramadol? Chronic pain relief"
"In addition to typical opioid adverse effects, tramadol also may cause decreased seizure threshold and serotonin syndrome"
"Butorphanol is a κ-opioid receptor agonist and μ-opioid receptor partial agonist"
"What is the clinical use for butorphanol? Severe pain relief (e.g. migraine, labor)"
"Is butorphanol overdose easily reversed with naloxone? No"
"Pentazocine and nalbuphine are κ-opioid receptor agonists and weak μ-opioid receptor antagonists or partial agonists"
"What is the clinical use for pentazocine? Moderate to severe pain relief"
"What type of local anesthetic are procaine, cocaine, tetracaine, and benzocaine? Esters"
"What type of local anesthetic are lidocaine, mepivacaine, and bupivacaine? Amides"
"Local anesthetics exert their actions by blocking Na+ channels (via binding to specific receptors on the inner portion of the channel)"
"Local anesthetics are most effective in rapidly::speed-firing neurons"
"Tertiary amine local anesthetics penetrate the cell membrane in a(n) uncharged form and then bind to ion channels in a(n) charged form (charged or uncharged)"
"Local anesthetics are often given with vasoconstrictors to enhance local action"
"What vasoconstrictor is often given with local anesthetics? Epinephrine"
"Are local anesthetics typically acidic or alkaline? Alkaline (tertiary amines)"
"How does the pH change in infected tissue? Decreased (acidic)"
"In infected (acidic) tissue, more local anesthetics are required to achieve the desired effect"
"What size of nerve fiber, small or large diameter, is affected first by local anesthetics? Small-diameter fibers"
"What type of nerve fiber, myelinated or unmyelinated, is affected first by local anesthetics? Myelinated fibers"
"Which nerve fibers (size, myelination) are affected first by local anesthetics? Small, myelinated fibers"
"Would a small, unmyelinated or large, myelinated fiber be affected first by local anesthetics? Small, unmyelinated"
"What sensation is lost first with local anesthetics? Pain"
"Local anesthetics are often used for minor surgical procedures and spinal anesthesia"
"Local anesthetics can cause CNS excitation, which may decrease the seizure threshold"
"Bupivacaine is a local anesthetic that is associated with severe cardiovascular toxicity"
"Cocaine is a local anesthetic that is commonly associated with cardiac arrhythmias"
"Benzocaine is a local anesthetic that is associated with methemoglobinemia as an adverse effect"
"Do local anesthetics cause hypo- or hypertension? Can cause either :)"
"What should be given to a patient who is allergic to ester local anesthetics (e.g. procaine)? Amide anesthetics (e.g. lidocaine)"
"Dantrolene is a muscle relaxant that is used to treat malignant hyperthermia and neuroleptic malignant syndrome"
"The risk factors for suicide completion may be remembered with the mnemonic \SAD PERSONS\\": S: Sex (male) A: Age (teenage or elderly) D: Depression P: Previous attempt (highest risk factor) E: Ethanol or drug use R: Rational thinking impaired (psychosis) S: Sickness (medical illness) O: Organized plan N: No spouse or other social support S: {{c10::Stated future intent\""
"Which \SAD PERSONS\\" risk factor carries the highest risk for suicide? Previous attempt\""
"Firearms in the house are an independent risk factor for suicide completion"
"What is the most common method of suicide in the U.S.? Firearms"
"Which gender attempts suicide more often? Females"
"Which gender completes suicide more often? Males"
"Anxiety disorders are characterized by an inappropriate experience of fear/worry and physical manifestations incongruent with the magnitude of the perceived stressor"
"Anxiety disorders include panic disorder, phobias, generalized anxiety disorder, and selective mutism"
"Diagnosis of panic disorder requires at least one panic attack, followed by at least one month::duration of preoccupations with the attack"
"The symptoms of panic attacks may be remembered with the mnemonic \PANICS\\": P: Palpitations"
"First-line treatment for panic disorder includes CBT + SSRIs or venlafaxine"
"Panic attacks may be treated acutely with benzodiazepines"
"Specific phobia is defined as severe, persistent fear or anxiety triggered by specific things, situations, or environments for > 6 months::duration"
"Specific phobias can be treated with systematic desensitization therapy (a form of behavioral therapy)"
"Social anxiety disorder is a phobia characterized by exaggerated fear of embarrassment in public situations (e.g. public speaking, using public restrooms)"
"First-line treatment for social anxiety disorder includes CBT + SSRIs or venlafaxine"
"What drugs may be used to treat social anxiety disorder for anxiety-inducing situations? Benzodiazepines or β-blockers::2"
"Agoraphobia is a phobia characterized by irrational fear/anxiety in uncontrollable environments (e.g. wide open or crowed spaces, public transportation)"
"Agoraphobia is associated with panic disorder"
"What is the first-line treatment for agoraphobia? CBT + SSRIs"
"Generalized anxiety disorder is defined as anxiety unrelated to a specific person, situation, or event for > 6 months::duration"
"What is the first line treatment for generalized anxiety disorder? CBT + SSRIs/SNRIs"
"To be diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder, patients must exhibit 3/6 of the following symptoms over course of at least 6 months (mnemonic: Worry WARTS) - Wound up (Irritability) - Worn out (Fatigue) - Absentminded (Difficulty concentrating) - Restlessness - Tension in muscle - Sleep disturbance"
"Adjustment disorder is characterized by emotional symptoms (anxiety, depression) that occur within 3 months of an identifiable psychosocial stressor and lasting < 6 months once the stressor has ended"
"If a psychosocial stressor causes continued impairment > 6 months after the stressor ends, it is generalized anxiety disorder"
"What is the treatment for adjustment disorder? SSRIs + CBT; also attempt to address the stressor"
"Obessive-compulsive disorder is characterized by recurring intrusive thoughts, feelings, or sensations that cause severe distress and is temporarily relieved by the performance of repetitive actions"
"Patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder are ego-dystonic"
"First-line treatment for OCD includes CBT + SSRIs (preferred) or clomipramine (not preferred)"
"Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is associated with Tourette's syndrome"
"Body dysmorphic disorder is a preoccupation with a minor or imagined defect in appearance, causing significant emotional distress or impaired functioning"
"What is the treatment for body dysmorphic disorder? CBT"
"Post-traumatic stress disorder is a psychological trauma in response to life threatening situation (witnessing death, serious injury, or sexual violence)"
"The symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may be remembered with the mnemonic \DREAMS\\": - Disinterest in usual activities"
"PTSD is diagnosed if the disturbance lasts > 1 month::duration with significant distress or impaired social-occupational functioning"
"First-line treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) includes CBT + SSRIs or venlafaxine"
"What drug may be used to reduce nightmares in PTSD? Prazosin"
"Acute stress disorder is characterized by symptoms of PTSD that last between 3 days and 1 month::duration"
"What is the treatment for acute stress disorder? CBT"
"Malingering is when a patient consciously fakes, profoundly exaggerates, or claims to have a disorder in order to attain a secondary (external) gain (e.g. avoid work, obtain compensation)"
"Do the complaints associated with malingering cease after the desired gain? Yes"
"Factitious disorders are when a patient consciously creates physical and/or psychological symptoms in order to assume a \sick role\\" and get medical attention and sympathy (primary/internal gain)\""
"Factitious disorder imposed by self is a factitious disorder characterized by a history of multiple hospital admissions and willingness to undergo invasive procedures"
"Factitious disorder imposed by self is a chronic factitious disorder with predominantly physical signs/symptoms"
"Factitious disorder imposed by self is more common in women::gender and healthcare workers"
"Factitious disorder imposed by another is a factitious disorder characterized by illness in a child or elderly patient that is caused or fabricated by the caregiver"
"Factitious disorder imposed by another is a form of child/elder abuse"
"Somatic symptom disorder is characterized by various unexplained bodily complaints lasting for months and years with persistent thoughts/anxiety about symptoms"
"The illness production and motivation in somatic symptom disorder are unconscious::conscious or unconscious drives"
"Illness anxiety disorder is an excessive preoccupation with acquiring or having a serious illness, often despite medical evaluation and reassurance; minimal somatic symptoms"
"Conversion disorder is a loss of sensory or motor function (e.g. paralysis, blindness, mutism), often following an acute stressor"
"Patients with conversion disorder are often aware but indifferent towards their symptoms (e.g. blindness, mutism); known as \la belle indifference\\"\""
"Conversion (functional neurological symptom) disorder is more common in females::gender, adolescents, and young adults"
"False pregnancy, or pseudocyesis, is the belief that one is pregnant when they aren't really"
"What drug class do fluoxetine and paroxetine belong to? SSRIs"
"What drug class do sertraline and fluvoxamine belong to? SSRIs"
"What drug class do citalopram and escitalopram belong to? SSRIs"
"What drug class do venlafaxine and desvenlafaxine belong to? SNRIs"
"What drug class does duloxetine belong to? SNRIs"
"What drug class do milnacipran and levomilnacipran belong to? SNRIs"
"SSRIs inhibit the pre-synaptic reuptake of serotonin (5-HT)"
"SNRIs inhibit the pre-synaptic reuptake of norepineprine and serotonin"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for depression? SSRIs"
"What are the first-line pharmacologic treatments for generalized anxiety disorder? SSRIs or SNRIs::2"
"What are the first-line pharmacologic treatments for panic disorder? SSRIs or SNRIs::2"
"What are the first-line pharmacologic treatments for PTSD? SSRIs or venlafaxine::2"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? SSRIs"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for bulimia nervosa? SSRIs"
"What are the first-line pharmacologic treatments for social anxiety disorder? SSRIs or venlafaxine::2"
"What sexual dysfunction may be treated with SSRIs? Premature ejaculation"
"SSRIs may be used to treat premenstrual dysphoric disorder, a severe form of premenstrual syndrome (PMS)"
"What diabetes complication can be treated with SNRIs? Diabetic neuropathy"
"SNRIs may be used to treat chronic pain (e.g. neuropathic pain)"
"Duloxetine is an SNRI that is indicated for the treatment of fibromyalgia::musculoskeletal pathology"
"How long do SSRIs and SNRIs take to achieve maximum effect? 1 - 2 months"
"What endocrine pathology is rarely caused by SSRIs? SIADH"
"SSRIs can cause sexual dysfunction, such as anorgasmia and decreased libido"
"SSRIs can cause weight gain"
"Serotonin syndrome is a potentially lethal adverse effect associated with any drug that increases 5-HT"
"What anti-emetic can increase risk for serotonin syndrome? Ondansetron"
"What anti-tussive can increase risk for serotonin syndrome? Dextromethorphan"
"What antibiotic can increase risk for serotonin syndrome? Linezolid"
"The symptoms of serotonin syndrome can be remembered with the \3 A's\\": 1. neuromuscular hyperActivity (clonus"
"What abnormal movement is associated with serotonin syndrome? Clonus"
"Serotonin syndrome is associated with hyper-reflexia"
"Cyproheptadine is a(n) 5-HT2 receptor antagonist used to treat serotonin syndrome"
"What is the most common side effect of SNRIs? Hypertension"
"Sudden discontinuation of SSRIs or SNRIs can cause flu-like symptoms"
"What drug class do amitriptyline and nortriptyline belong to? Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)"
"What drug class do imipramine, desipramine, and clomipramine belong to? Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)"
"What drug class do doxepin and amoxapine belong to? Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs)"
"TCAs inhibit the pre-synaptic reuptake of norepineprine and serotonin"
"Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) may be used for treatment-resistant depression"
"What diabetes complication can be treated with TCAs? Diabetic neuropathy"
"TCAs may be used to treat peripheral neuropathy and chronic pain (e.g. neuropathic pain)"
"TCAs, such as amitryptiline, may be used for migraine prophylaxis"
"Clomipramine is a TCA that may be used in the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder"
"Imipramine is a TCA that is rarely used to treat nocturnal enuresis"
"Are tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) associated with sexual dysfunction? Yes"
"TCAs may cause anti-cholinergic side effects, such as tachycardia, urinary retention, dry mouth, and confusion"
"Which tricyclic antidepressant has the most anti-cholinergic effects? Amitriptyline (tertiary amine)"
"Which tricyclic antidepressants have the least anti-cholinergic effects? Nortriptyline::secondary amine and desipramine::secondary amine"
"TCAs are relatively contraindicated in elderly patients due to severe anticholinergic and antihistamine effects"
"Tricyclic antidepressants antagonize the H1 histamine receptor"
"Tricyclic antidepressants antagonize the α1 adrenergic receptor"
"What adverse effect is associated with TCAs due to α1 antagonism? Orthostatic hypotension"
"What is the most common cause of death in tricyclic antidepressant overdose? Fatal cardiac arrhythmia"
"TCAs can cause arrhythmias due to fast Na+ channel inhibition in the myocardium"
"TCAs are a class of antidepressants that can cause QT interval prolongation, which precipitates torsades de pointes"
"Arrhythmia secondary to tricyclic antidepressants is prevented with NaHCO3"
"Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with the \Tri-C\\" side effects: Convulsions"
"Adverse effects of tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) include respiratory depression and hyperpyrexia"
"What drug class does tranylcypromine belong to? Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs)"
"What drug class does phenelzine belong to? Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs)"
"What drug class does isocarboxazid belong to? Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs)"
"What drug class does selegiline belong to? Selective MAO-B inhibitor"
"Which MAO inhibitors are selective MAO-B inhibitors? Selegiline and rasagiline::2"
"Which neurotransmitter(s) are broken down by monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A)? Serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine"
"Which neurotransmitter(s) are metabolized by monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B)? Dopamine"
"Are MAO inhibitors reversible or irreversible? Irreversible"
"Do MAO inhibitors typically inhibit MAO-A or MAO-B? Both :) (non-selective)"
"MAO inhibitors may be used to treat anxiety and treatment-resistant atypical depression (not first line)"
"Selegiline is a(n) MAO-B inhibitor used to treat Parkinson disease"
"Tyramine is a substance found in many aged foods (e.g. cheese, meats, alcohol)"
"Tyramine is metabolized by the enzyme MAO-A in the GI tract"
"In the presence of MAO inhibitors, tyramine enters the circulation and acts as a(n) sympathomimetic agent"
"Tyramine toxicity in patients on MAO inhibitors can precipitate hypertensive crisis"
"Phentolamine is an α1 and α2 antagonist that can be used to manage the hypertensive symptoms of tyramine toxicity"
"MAO inhibitors may cause CNS stimulation::stimulation or depression"
"MAO inhibitors are contraindicated in patients taking St. John's wort, which is a medicinal herb with antidepressant activity"
"MAO inhibitors are contraindicated in patients taking the anti-tussive dextromethorphan"
"MAO inhibitors are contraindicated in patients taking the opioid analgesic meperidine"
"Patients must wait 2 weeks after stopping MAO inhibitors before starting serotonergic drugs and/or stopping dietary restrictions"
"What drug class does bupropion belong to? Atypical antidepressants"
"Bupropion inhibits the reuptake of norepinephrine and dopamine"
"What sleep disturbance is associated with bupropion use? Insomnia"
"Bupropion may be used for smoking cessation"
"Bupropion may cause seizures, especially in anorexic or bulimic patients"
"Which atypical antidepressant may cause seizures in anorexic/bulimic patients? Bupropion"
"Is bupropion use associated with sexual dysfunction? No"
"Compared to other antidepressants, bupropion is less likely to cause weight gain"
"What drug class does mirtazapine belong to? Atypical antidepressants"
"Mirtazapine is a(n) α2-adrenergic antagonist, which increases pre-synaptic release of serotonin and norepinephrine"
"Which serotonin receptors are inhibited by mirtazapine? 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 receptors::2"
"Mirtazapine is a(n) H1 histamine receptor antagonist"
"Mirtazapine can cause sedation, which may be desirable in depressed patients with insomnia"
"Which atypical antidepressant is useful for treating depressed patients with insomnia? Mirtazapine"
"Mirtazapine causes increased appetite and weight gain"
"Which atypical antidepressant is useful for treating anorexic or elderly depressed patients? Mirtazapine"
"Is mirtazapine use associated with sexual dysfunction? No"
"Mirtazapine may cause dry mouth as an adverse effect"
"What drug class does trazodone belong to? Atypical antidepressants"
"Trazodone is a(n) α1-adrenergic antagonist"
"Which serotonin receptor is inhibited by trazodone? 5-HT2"
"Trazodone is a(n) H1 histamine receptor antagonist"
"Trazodone weakly inhibits the pre-synaptic reuptake of serotonin (5-HT)"
"Trazodone can cause orthostatic hypotension::BP as an adverse effect"
"Trazodone is an atypical antidepressant that is primarily used to treat insomnia"
"Is trazodone use associated with sexual dysfunction? Yes"
"What drug class does vilazodone belong to? Atypical antidepressants"
"Vilazodone inhibits the pre-synaptic reuptake of serotonin (5-HT)"
"Vilazodone is a(n) 5-HT1A receptor partial agonist"
"Vilazodone is primarily used to treat major depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder (off-label)"
"Adverse effects of vilazodone include anti-cholinergic effects and weight gain"
"What drug class does vortioxetine belong to? Atypical antidepressants"
"Vortioxetine inhibits the pre-synaptic reuptake of serotonin (5-HT)"
"Vortioxetine is a(n) 5-HT1A receptor agonist"
"Vortioxetine is a(n) 5-HT3 receptor antagonist"
"Adverse effects of vortioxetine include anti-cholinergic effects, sleep disturbances (abnormal dreams), and sexual dysfunction"
"What risk factor leads to Pseudomonas infection of the cornea, causing corneal ulcers/keratitis? Contact lens wearers"
"Buspirone exerts its effects via stimulation of the 5-HT1A receptor"
"Buspirone is primarily used to treat generalized anxiety disorder (2nd line)"
"Does buspirone use lead to tolerance and/or addiction? No"
"Does buspirone cause sedation as an adverse effect? No"
"Does buspirone interact with alcohol? No"
"What is the general treatment for bipolar disorder? Mood stabilizers"
"Lithium is an ion that is used as a mood stabilizer for bipolar disorder"
"Is lithium used to prevent relapse or treat acute mania in bipolar disorder? Both :)"
"The mechanism of action of lithium may be related to inhibition of the IP3 signaling pathway"
"Lithium has a narrow therapeutic index"
"Acute lithium toxicity presents with GI symptoms"
"Chronic lithium toxicity causes neurologic symptoms, such as tremor and ataxia"
"Lithium is a mood stabilizer that may cause hypo-thyroidism as an adverse effect"
"What type of diabetes is associated with lithium use? Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus"
"Renal clearance of lithium is reduced in patients taking thiazide diuretics or other nephrotoxic agents (e.g. NSAIDs, ACE inhibitors)"
"What teratogenic effect is associated with maternal lithium use? Ebstein anomaly"
"Which mood stabilizer is associated with ebstein anomaly in newborns? Lithium"
"Lithium is almost exclusively excreted by the kidneys"
"What part of the nephron is lithium primarily reabsorbed? PCT (with Na+)"
"What anti-epileptics may be used in the treatment of bipolar disorder? Valproate, carbamazepine, and lamotrigine"
"Is valproate used to prevent relapse or treat acute mania in bipolar disorder? Both :)"
"Is carbamazepine used to prevent relapse or treat acute mania in bipolar disorder? Both :)"
"Is lamotrigine used to prevent relapse or treat acute mania in bipolar disorder? Prevent relapse (maintenance), only"
"In addition to mood stabilizers, bipolar disorder may also be treated with antipsychotics"
"Are antipsychotics used to prevent relapse or treat acute mania in bipolar disorder? Acute mania, only"
"Valproic acid is a(n) broad spectrum anti-epileptic"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with valproic acid? All three (partial, tonic-clonic, absence)"
"Valproic acid and phenytoin are first-line agents for treatment of acute tonic-clonic seizures"
"Valproic acid exerts its effects by increasing Na+ channel inactivation and inhibiting GABA transaminase"
"Valproic acid increases levels of GABA in the CNS via inhibition of GABA transaminase"
"Valproic acid is an anti-epileptic that may cause GI distress and pancreatitis as adverse effects"
"Valproic acid causes increased appetite and weight gain"
"Valproic acid can cause neurologic side effects, such as tremor"
"Valproic acid is an anti-epileptic that rarely causes a fatal hepatotoxicity"
"What teratogenic effect is associated with valproic acid? Neural tube defects (e.g. spina bifida)"
"Valproic acid is useful in the management of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy"
"Valproic acid and topiramate are anti-epileptics that are useful for migraine prophylaxis"
"Topiramate is a(n) broad spectrum anti-epileptic"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with topiramate? Partial and tonic-clonic"
"Topiramate exerts its effects by increasing Na+ channel inactivation"
"Topiramate increases GABA action via allosterically binding to the GABAA receptor"
"Topiramate increases GABA action and thus may cause sedation and fatigue as adverse effects"
"Topiramate may cause confusion and cognitive slowing as adverse effects"
"Topiramate is an anti-epileptic associated with weight loss"
"What renal complication may be caused by topiramate? Kidney stones"
"Topiramate is an anti-epileptic that may cause myopia and acute angle closure glaucoma (eye complications)"
"Lamotrigine is a(n) broad spectrum anti-epileptic"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with lamotrigine? All three (partial, tonic-clonic, absence)"
"Lamotrigine exerts its effects by increasing Na+ channel inactivation"
"What is the most serious adverse effect associated with lamotrigine use? Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"Levetiracetam is a(n) broad spectrum anti-epileptic"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with levetiracetam? Partial and tonic-clonic"
"Adverse effects associated with levetiracetam use include somnolence and neuropsychiatric symptoms (e.g. behavioral change)"
"Carbamazepine is a(n) narrow spectrum anti-epileptic"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with carbamazepine? Partial and tonic-clonic"
"What is the first line treatment for partial (focal) seizures? Carbamazepine"
"Carbamazepine exerts its effects by blocking Na+ channels"
"What is the first line treatment for trigeminal neuralgia? Carbamazepine"
"Non-specific adverse effects associated with carbamazepine include diplopia and ataxia"
"What endocrine pathology may be caused by carbamazepine use? SIADH"
"Carbamazepine is an anti-epileptic associated with blood dyscrasias, such as aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis"
"Carbamazepine is a(n) inducer of cytochrome P450 and thus may have many drug interactions"
"Which anti-epileptic is most associated with DRESS syndrome (Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms)? Phenytoin"
"Is carbamazepine use associated with teratogenic effects? Yes"
"What dermatologic complication is associated with carbamazepine use? Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"Carbamazepine is associated with liver toxicity as an adverse effect"
"Phenytoin is a(n) narrow spectrum anti-epileptic"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with phenytoin? Partial and tonic-clonic"
"Phenytoin exerts its effects by blocking Na+ channels"
"Adverse effects associated with phenytoin include diplopia and nystagmus (eye complications)"
"Phenytoin may cause neurologic side effects, such as peripheral neuropathy and ataxia"
"What hematologic complication is associated with phenytoin? Megaloblastic anemia::not lupus"
"Phenytoin is an anti-epileptic associated with gingival hyperplasia"
"Phenytoin is an anti-epileptic associated with hirsutism in women"
"What dermatologic complication is associated with phenytoin use? Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"What teratogenic effect is associated with maternal phenytoin use? Fetal hydantoin syndrome"
"Phenytoin is a(n) inducer of cytochrome P450 and thus may have many drug interactions"
"Phenytoin is an anti-epileptic associated with osteopenia::bone complication"
"Which anti-epileptic is most associated with drug-induced lupus? Phenytoin"
"Phenytoin is first line for prophylaxis of status epilepticus"
"Stevens-Johnson syndrome in patients taking carbamazepine or phenytoin is associated with HLA-B1502, which is typically seen in those of Asian ancestry"
"Which anti-epileptic is eliminated via zero order kinetics? Phenytoin"
"Gabapentin is a(n) narrow spectrum anti-epileptic"
"Gabapentin is an anti-epileptic that exerts its effects by blocking voltage-gated Ca2+ channels"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with gabapentin? Partial"
"Which anti-epileptic may be used to treat peripheral neuropathy and fibromyalgia (chronic pain)? Gabapentin"
"Gabapentin is an anti-epileptic that may be used to treat post-herpetic neuralgia"
"Adverse effects of gabapentin include sedation and ataxia"
"Vigabatrin and tiagabine are narrow spectrum anti-epileptics"
"Vigabatrin is an anti-epileptic that exerts its effects via inhibition of the enzyme GABA transaminase"
"What serious adverse effect may be caused by vigabatrin use? Permanent vision loss (black box warning)"
"Tiagabine is an anti-epileptic that exerts its effects by inhibiting GABA reuptake"
"What type(s) of seizures (partial, tonic-clonic, or absence) may be treated with vigabatrin and tiagabine? Partial"
"Ethosuximide is the first line treatment for absence seizures"
"Ethosuximide exerts its effects by blocking T-type Ca2+::specific channels in the thalamus"
"The side effects of ethosuximide may be remembered with the letters of the alphabet \EFGHIJ\\": E: Ethosuximide F: Fatigue G: GI distress H: Headache I: Itching/urticaria J: Stevens-Johnson syndrome\""
"In addition to ethosuximide, absence seizures may also be treated with valproic acid and lamotrigine"
"A(n) personality disorder is an inflexible, maladaptive, and rigidly pervasive pattern of behavior causing subjective distress and/or impaired functioning"
"Are patients with personality disorders usually aware of their problem? No"
"People with cluster A personality disorders are described as odd or eccentric"
"Which cluster of personality disorders is characterized by an inability to develop meaningful relationships? Cluster A"
"Cluster A personality disorders have a genetic association with schizophrenia"
"Cluster A personality disorders lack psychosis, which is a distinguishing feature from schizophrenia"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by pervasive distrust and suspiciousness of others, with a profoundly cynical view of the world? Paranoid (cluster A)"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by voluntary social withdrawal with limited emotional expression? Schizoid (cluster A)"
"Are patients with schizoid personality disorder content with social isolation? Yes"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by eccentric appearance, interpersonal awkwardness, and odd beliefs/magical thinking? Schizotypal (cluster A)"
"People with cluster B personality disorders are described as dramatic, emotional, or erratic"
"Cluster B personality disorders have a genetic association with mood disorders and substance abuse"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by impulsivity, criminality, and disregard for/violation of rights of others with lack of remorse? Antisocial (cluster B)"
"Antisocial personality disorder is more common in males::gender"
"Antisocial personality disorder can only be diagnosed if the patient is > 18 years old and has a history of conduct disorder before age 15"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by unstable mood and relationships and a sense of emptiness? Borderline (cluster B)"
"Which cluster B personality disorder has a high rate of self-mutilation and suicide? Borderline"
"Borderline personality disorder is more common in females::gender"
"What is the treatment for borderline personality disorder? Dialectical behavioral therapy"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by excessive emotionality/excitability and sexually provocative behavior? Histrionic (cluster B)"
"Patients with histrionic personality disorder are attention seeking, sexually provocative, and overly concerned with appearance"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by grandiosity, sense of entitlement, and lack of empathy? Narcissistic (cluster B)"
"Patients with narcissistic personality disorder often require excessive admiration and react to criticism with rage"
"People with cluster C personality disorders are described as anxious or fearful"
"Cluster C personality disorders have a genetic association with anxiety disorders"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by social withdrawal with hypersensitivity to rejection and feelings of inadequacy? Avoidant (cluster C)"
"Are patients with avoidant personality disorder content with social isolation? No"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by preoccupation with order, perfectionism, and control? Obsessive-compulsive (cluster C)"
"Patients with obsessive compulsive personality disorder are ego-syntonic, which means their behavior is consistent with their own beliefs or attitudes"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by low-self confidence with an excessive need to be taken care of? Dependent (cluster C)"
"Patients with dependent personality disorder are typically submissive and clingy"
"Patients with dependent personality disorder often get stuck in abusive relationships"
"What demographic is associated with eating disorders? Young females"
"Anorexia nervosa is defined as excessive dieting, exercise, or binge eating/purging with BMI < 18.5 kg/m2"
"Anorexia nervosa/strenuous exercise is associated with amenorrhea due to loss of pulsatile GnRH secretion"
"Anorexia nervosa may present with lanugo, which is the presence of soft, fine white hairs along the body"
"Which eating disorder is associated with functional hypothalamic amenorrhea and lanugo? Anorexia nervosa"
"Anorexia nervosa may present with anemia::RBC count and electrolyte disturbances"
"Anorexia nervosa is associated with decreased bone density and metatarsal stress fractures"
"Anorexia nervosa commonly coexists with depression"
"What is the first line therapy for anorexia nervosa? Nutritional rehabilitation and psychotherapy"
"What pharmacotherapy may be used to treat anorexia nervosa? SSRIs or Olanzapine::2"
"Because of the large electrolyte abnormalities in refeeding syndrome, patients can present with arrhythmias::cardiac, rhabdomyolysis, and seizures"
"The massive insulin surge in refeeding syndrome results in hypophosphatemia, hypokalemia, and hypomagnesemia"
"Bulimia nervosa is defined as binge eating with recurrent inappropriate compensatory behaviors occurring weekly for at least 3 months::duration"
"Patients with bulimia nervosa often have body weights within normal ranges"
"Bulimia nervosa is associated with parotitis and enamel erosion due to excessive vomiting"
"Which eating disorder is associated with parotitis and enamel erosion and normal weight? Bulimia nervosa"
"Bulimia nervosa is characterized by electrolyte disturbances and metabolic alkalosis"
"Bulimia nervosa is an eating disorder that may present with dorsal hand calluses from induced vomiting (Russell sign)"
"Treatment for bulimia nervosa may include psychotherapy, nutritional rehabilitation, and SSRIs (specifically fluoxetine)"
"Binge eating disorder is characterized by regular episodes of excessive, uncontrollable eating without inappropriate compensatory behaviors"
"Binge eating disorder is associated with increased risk for obesity and diabetes mellitus"
"Treatment for binge eating disorder is CBT +/- SSRIs or lisdexamfetamine"
"Gender dysphoria is persistent cross-gender identification that leads to persistent distress with sex assigned at birth"
"Transgenderism is the desire to live as the opposite sex, often through surgery or hormone treatment"
"Transvestism is sexual pleasure from dressing as the opposite sex (cross-dressing)"
"Sexual dysfunction includes sexual desire disorders, such as hypoactive sexual desire and sexual aversion"
"Sexual dysfunction includes sexual arousal disorders, such as erectile dysfunction"
"Sexual dysfunction includes orgasmic disorders, such as anorgasmia and premature ejaculation"
"Sexual dysfunction includes sexual pain disorders, such as dyspareunia and vaginismus"
"Do patients with erectile dysfunction due to psychological etiologies have nocturnal penile tumescence? Yes"
"Do patients with erectile dysfunction due to medical etiologies have nocturnal penile tumescence? No"
"Sleep terror disorder is characterized by inconsolable periods of terror with screaming in the middle of the night (stage N3 sleep)"
"What demographic is associated with sleep terror disorder? Children::age group"
"Do patients with sleep terror disorder have any memory of the arousal episode? No"
"Do patients with nightmares have any memory of the scary dream? Yes"
"The primary symptoms of narcolepsy are excessive daytime sleepiness and sleep attacks"
"Narcolepsy is caused by decreased hypocretin (orexin) production in the lateral hypothalamus"
"Narcolepsy is associated with hallucinations (e.g. hypnagogic and hypnopompic)"
"Narcolepsy is characterized by nocturnal and narcoleptic sleep episodes that start with REM sleep (sleep paralysis)"
"Narcolepsy is associated with cataplexy, which is the loss of all muscle tone following a strong emotional stimulus (e.g. laughter)"
"Does narcolepsy have a strong or weak genetic component? Strong"
"Treatment of narcolepsy involves daytime stimulants (e.g. amphetamines, modafinil)"
"Treatment of narcolepsy involves nighttime sodium oxybate (GHB)"
"Substance use disorder is defined as > 2 of the following signs in 1 year related specifically to substance use: Tolerance Withdrawal Substance taken in larger amounts than desired Persistent desire or unsuccessful attempts to cut down Significant energy spent obtaining, using, or recovering from substance Important social, occupational, or recreational activities reduced Continued use despite knowing it causes problems Craving Recurrent use in physically dangerous situations Failure to fulfill major obligations at work, school, or home Social or interpersonal conflicts"
"Which stage of change is characterized by not yet acknowledging that there is a problem? Precontemplation"
"Which stage of change is characterized by acknowledging there's a problem, BUT not yet ready or willing to make a change? Contemplation"
"Which stage of change is characterized by getting ready to change behavior? Preparation/determination"
"Which stage of change is characterized by changing behaviors? Action/will power"
"Which stage of change is characterized by maintaining the behavioral changes? Maintenance"
"Which stages of change is characterized by returning to old behaviors and abandoning new changes? Relapse (does not always happen)"
"What drug class do haloperidol and pimozide belong to? Typical antipsychotics (1st generation)"
"What drug class do trifluoperazine, fluphenazine, thioridazine, and chlorpromazine belong to? Typical antipsychotics (1st generation)"
"Typical antipsychotics exert their effects by blocking the D2 dopamine receptor"
"Typical antipsychotics result in increased cAMP::second messenger"
"The high potency typical antipsychotics are trifluoperazine, fluphenazine, and haloperidol"
"The low potency typical antipsychotics are chlorpromazine and thioridazine"
"Are typical antipsychotics effective at treating the positive or negative symptoms of schizophrenia? Positive"
"In addition to schizophrenia, typical antipsychotics are used to treat psychosis in many conditions (e.g. bipolar disorder, delirium)"
"Typical and atypical antipsychotics may be used to treat intractable or distressing tics associated with Tourette's syndrome"
"Typical antipsychotics have high lipid solubility and thus long half lives"
"Typical antipsychotics are associated with anti-cholinergic effects, such as dry mouth and constipation"
"Are anti-cholinergic effects more common with high or low potency typical antipsychotics? Low potency"
"Typical antipsychotics are associated with anti-histamine effects, such as sedation"
"Are anti-histamine effects more common with high or low potency typical antipsychotics? Low potency"
"Typical antipsychotics are associated with α1-adrenergic blockade, which may cause orthostatic hypotension"
"Are anti-α1 effects more common with high or low potency typical antipsychotics? Low potency"
"Typical antipsychotics are associated with extrapyramidal symptoms, such as acute dystonia, akathisia, and Parkinsonism"
"Are extrapyramidal symptoms more common with high or low potency typical antipsychotics? High potency"
"Which extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g. due to antipsychotic use) occur within minutes to days? Acute dystonia"
"Which extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g. due to antipsychotic use) occur within days to months? Akathisia (restlessness) and parkinsonism"
"Which extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g. due to antipsychotic use) occur within months to years? Tardive dyskinesia"
"The extrapyramidal symptoms of antipsychotics may be managed with an M1 antagonist such as benztropine"
"Typical antipsychotics may cause symptoms of prolactin excess (e.g. galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia)"
"What is the most serious adverse effect associated with antipsychotics? Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS)"
"The symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \Malignant FEVER\\": M: Myoglobinuria F: Fever E: Encephalopathy (altered mental status) V: unstable Vitals (autonomic instability) E: increased Enzymes (e.g. CK) R: muscle Rigidity\""
"Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is often characterized by a generalized \lead-pipe\\" rigidity\""
"Neuroleptic malignant syndrome may be treated with dantrolene* or a(n) D2 agonist"
"What adverse cardiac effect is associated with both typical and atypical antipsychotics? QT interval prolongation"
"Typical antipsychotics may cause a decreased seizure threshold"
"The typical antipsychotic chlorpromazine is associated with corneal deposits"
"The typical antipsychotic thioridazine is associated with retinal deposits"
"What drug class do asenapine, clozapine, olanzapine, and quetiapine belong to? Atypical antipsychotics (2nd generation)"
"What drug class do iloperidone, paliperidone, and risperidone belong to? Atypical antipsychotics (2nd generation)"
"What drug class do lurasidone and ziprasidone belong to? Atypical antipsychotics (2nd generation)"
"What drug class does aripiprazole belong to? Atypical antipsychotics (2nd generation)"
"Most atypical antipsychotics exert their effects by blocking the D2 dopamine receptor"
"Which serotonin receptor is antagonized by many atypical antipsychotics? 5-HT2A"
"Are atypical antipsychotics effective at treating the positive or negative symptoms of schizophrenia? Both :)"
"In addition to schizophrenia, atypical antipsychotics are used to treat treatment-resistant depression"
"What is the treatment of choice for treatment-resistant schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder? Clozapine"
"Which atypical antipsychotic is used for suicidality in schizophrenia? Clozapine"
"Compared to typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics cause less::more/less anti-cholinergic side effects"
"Compared to typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics cause less::more/less anti-histamine side effects"
"Compared to typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics cause less::more/less anti-α1 side effects"
"Compared to typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics are more::more/less likely to cause metabolic syndrome"
"Atypical antipsychotics may cause metabolic syndrome, which is characterized by weight gain, dyslipidemia, and hyperglycemia"
"Which atypical antipsychotics are most associated with metabolic syndrome? \-pines\\" (esp. clozapine and olanzapine)\""
"Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic that may cause agranulocytosis::hematologic complication"
"Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic that may cause myocarditis and cardiomyopathy (cardiac complications)"
"Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic associated with a dose dependent risk for seizures::neurologic complication"
"Compared to typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics are less::more/less likely to cause extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)"
"Compared to typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics are less::more/less likely to cause neuroleptic malignant syndrome"
"Levodopa (L-DOPA) is a precursor of dopamine that does cross the blood-brain-barrier"
"Once in the CNS, L-DOPA may be converted to dopamine via the enzyme DOPA decarboxylase"
"Peripheral conversion of levodopa may cause GI distress"
"Peripheral conversion of levodopa may cause cardiac arrhythmias"
"Peripheral conversion of levodopa may cause orthostatic hypotension::BP"
"Chronic levodopa use can cause a \wearing-off reaction\\""
"Chronic levodopa use can cause an \on-off phenomenon\\""
"Chronic levodopa therapy can cause dyskinesias, such as choreoathetosis of the face and distal extremities"
"Levodopa and other Parkinson's disease therapies are contraindicated in psychotic patients"
"Carbidopa is a peripheral DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor used to increase the bioavailability of levodopa"
"Carbidopa decreases the peripheral side effects of levodopa"
"Carbidopa exacerbates the neuropsychiatric side effects of levodopa"
"Dopamine in the CNS may be degraded to 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) via the enzyme catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT)"
"Tolcapone is a peripheral and central COMT inhibitor used to increase the bioavailability of levodopa"
"Entacapone is a peripheral COMT inhibitor used to increase the bioavailability of levodopa"
"Tolcapone increases dopamine levels in the CNS"
"Tolcapone can cause hepatic failure as an adverse effect"
"Dopamine in the CNS may be degraded to DOPAC via the enzyme MAO-B"
"Selegiline and rasagiline may exacerbate the adverse effects of levodopa"
"Bromocriptine is an ergot dopamine agonist that is rarely used to treat Parkinson disease"
"Ropinirole is a non-ergot D2 receptor agonist that is used in initial treatment of Parkinson disease"
"Pramipexole is a non-ergot D3 receptor agonist that is used in initial treatment of Parkinson disease"
"What is the first line treatment for restless leg syndrome? Dopamine receptor agonists (ropinirole, pramipexole)"
"Dopamine receptor agonists, such as ropinirole, may increase impulse activities (e.g. gambling, shopping, hypersexuality)"
"Which anti-influenza agent is useful in the management of Parkinson disease? Amantadine"
"Amantadine increases dopamine synthesis and release"
"Amantadine inhibits dopamine reuptake"
"Adverse effects associated with amantadine include ataxia and livedo reticularis"
"Benztropine and trihexyphenidyl are antimuscarinic agents used to treat Parkinsonism, especially tremor and rigidity"
"Trihexyphenidyl and benztropine are useful for treating the tremor and rigidity of Parkinson disease"
"Trihexyphenidyl and benztropine are NOT useful for treating the bradykinesia of Parkinson disease"
"Non-specific symptoms of depressant intoxication (stimulant or depressant) include anxiolysis, disinhibition, respiratory depression, and mood elevation"
"Non-specific symptoms of depressant withdrawal (stimulant or depressant) include anxiety, tremor, insomnia, and seizures"
"Whichdrug intoxication presents as emotional lability, slurred speech, ataxia, and blackouts? Alcohol"
"Serum γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT) is a sensitive indicator of alcohol use"
"What AST to ALT ratio is indicative of alcohol abuse? >2:1 ratio of AST:ALT"
"What symptoms of alcohol withdrawal occur during the 3 - 36 hour time period? Non-specific depressant withdrawal symptoms"
"The non-specific depressant symptoms of alcohol withdrawal usually occur 3 to 36 hours after the last drink"
"What symptoms of alcohol withdrawal occur during the 6 - 48 hour time period? Withdrawal seizures"
"The seizures of alcohol withdrawal usually occur 6 to 48 hours after the last drink"
"What symptoms of alcohol withdrawal occur during the 12 - 48 hour time period? Alcoholic hallucinosis (usually visual)"
"The alcoholic hallucinosis of alcohol withdrawal usually occurs 12 to 48 hours after the last drink"
"What symptoms of alcohol withdrawal may occur during the 48 - 96 hour time period? Delirium tremens (5% of cases)"
"Delirium tremens, secondary to alcohol withdrawal, usually occurs 48 to 96 hours after the last drink"
"Delirium tremens is characterized by autonomic hyper-activity"
"Delirium tremens is characterized by electrolyte disturbances and respiratory alkalosis::acidosis or alkalosis"
"Delirium tremens classically occurs in a(n) hospital setting"
"What is the treatment for alcohol withdrawal? Benzodiazepines"
"What is the treatment for delirium tremens? Benzodiazepines"
"What drug intoxication presents as respiratory and CNS depression, pinpoint pupils and decreased gag reflex? Opioids"
"Opioid intoxication presents with pupillary constriction"
"What drug withdrawal is associated with yawning? Opioid withdrawal"
"What drug withdrawal is associated with nausea, stomach cramps, and diarrhea? Opioid withdrawal"
"What drug withdrawal is associated with piloerection (\cold turkey\\")? Opioid withdrawal\""
"Opioid withdrawal presents with pupillary dilation"
"What drug class is the most common cause of drug overdose death? Opioids (e.g. heroin)"
"What is the treatment for opioid overdose? Naloxone"
"Methadone is a long-acting oral opiate used for opioid detoxification or long-term maintenance therapy"
"What drug combination may be used for maintenance therapy following opioid detoxification? Buprenorphine plus naloxone"
"Naltrexone is a long-acting opioid antagonist used for relapse prevention once detoxified from opiates"
"What drug intoxication carries the highest risk for respiratory depression? Barbiturates"
"Barbiturate withdrawal may present with delirium and life-threatening cardiovascular collapse"
"Non-specific symptoms of stimulant::stimulant or depressant intoxication include psychomotor agitation, tachycardia, arrhythmias and anxiety"
"Non-specific symptoms of stimulant withdrawal (stimulant or depressant) include post-use \crash\\""
"What drug intoxication presents as pupillary dilation, grandiosity, hypertension, and paranoia that lasts for multiple hours? Amphetamines"
"Severe intoxication of amphetamines may cause seizures and cardiac arrest"
"What is the treatment for amphetamine intoxication? Benzodiazepines"
"What drug intoxication presents as pupillary dilation, grandiosity, vasospasm, and paranoia that lasts for less than one hour? Cocaine"
"What is the most lethal complication of cocaine intoxication? Sudden cardiac death"
"What is the treatment for cocaine intoxication? Benzodiazepines, α-blockers"
"Cocaine and amphetamine intoxication cause pupillary dilation"
"Nicotine withdrawal may be treated using nicotine replacement, bupropion, or varenicline"
"What drug intoxication presents as violence, psychomotor agitation, analgesia, and nystagmus? Phencyclidine (PCP)"
"What eye movement is associated with phencyclidine (PCP) intoxication? Nystagmus"
"What is the most common complication of PCP intoxication? Trauma"
"What is the treatment for PCP intoxication? Benzodiazepines, rapid-acting antipsychotics"
"What drug intoxication presents as perceptual distortion (visual, auditory), depersonalization, and possible flashbacks? LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide)"
"What drug intoxication presents as conjunctival injection, tachycardia, increased appetite, paranoid delusions, and dry mouth? Marijuana"
"Marijuana withdrawal may cause irritability, anxiety, depression, insomnia, and decreased appetite"
"What is the pharmaceutical form of marijuana? Dronabinol"
"Dronabinol (medical marijuana) is used clinically as a(n) antiemetic for chemotherapy"
"Dronabinol (medical marijuana) is used clinically as a(n) appetite stimulant for AIDS patients"
"What drug intoxication presents as disinhibition, heightened emotional/tactile sensation, and teeth clenching? MDMA (ecstasy)"
"Life-threatening effects of MDMA (ecstasy) include hyperthermia and hyponatremia::Na+ levels"
"Life-threatening effects of MDMA (ecstasy) include serotonin syndrome"
"Long-term pharmacologic treatment of alcoholism may include disulfiram, which acts a deterrent"
"Long-term pharmacologic treatment of alcoholism may include naltrexone or acamprosate, which reduce cravings"
"What neurologic complication is associated with opioid overdose? Seizures"
"Indirect cholinomimetics exert their effects via inhibition of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE)"
"Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors lead to increased levels of acetylcholine"
"What drug class do neostigmine, physostigmine, and pyridostigmine belong to? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors"
"What drug class does edrophonium belong to? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitor"
"Do acetylcholinesterase inhibitors enhance ACh activity at muscarinic or nicotinic receptors? Both :)"
"Myasthenia gravis is an autoimmune disease due to production of antibodies against post-synaptic nicotinic ACh receptors at motor end plates"
"Pyridostigmine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is used as long-acting treatment for myasthenia gravis"
"Neostigmine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that is less commonly used to treat myasthenia gravis"
"Edrophonium is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that was historically used to diagnose myasthenia gravis"
"The tensilon test uses edrophonium to help diagnose myasthenia gravis"
"Diagnosis of myasthenia gravis with edrophonium has been replaced by anti-AChR-Ab tests"
"If a patient with myasthenia gravis experiences muscle weakness due to under-treatment, edrophonium will reverse the muscle weakness"
"If a patient with myasthenia gravis experiences muscle weakness due to over-treatment, edrophonium will NOT reverse the muscle weakness"
"Pyridostigmine, neostigmine, and edrophonium are quaternary amines and thus do NOT penetrate the CNS"
"What drug class is used to reverse the effects of neuromuscular junction blockade? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (e.g. neostigmine)"
"Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may be used to treat post-operative and neurogenic ileus"
"Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors may be used to treat urinary retention"
"Physostigmine is a(n) tertiary amine and thus DOES penetrate the CNS"
"Physostigmine is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that may be used to treat atropine overdose"
"Acetylcholinesterase inhibitor poisoning causes flaccid paralysis due to NMJ nicotinic ACh receptor overactivation"
"Organophosphates are a type of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor found in many insectisides"
"Parathion, malathion, and echothiophate are all examples of organophosphates"
"Do organophosphates (e.g. parathion) reversibly or irreversibly inhibit AChE? Irreversibly (with time)"
"What demographic is associated with organophosphate poisoning? Farmers"
"Organophosphate toxicity may be treated with pralidoxime, which regenerates AChE at muscarinic and nicotinic receptors if given early"
"Does pralidoxime reverse the flaccid paralysis associated with cholinesterase inhibitor poisoning? Yes"
"Organophosphate toxicity may be treated with atropine, which is a competitive inhibitor at muscarinic receptors only"
"Does atropine reverse the flaccid paralysis associated with cholinesterase inhibitor poisoning? No, only effective at muscarinic receptors"
"Which cholinesterase inhibitor poisoning antidote reverses the central muscarinic effects? Atropine"
"Aging of the organophosphate-cholinesterase complex leads to irreversible binding"
"What is a lethal complication of cholinesterase inhibitor poisoning if untreated? Respiratory failure"
"What drug class do galantamine and tacrine belong to? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors"
"What drug class does rivastigmine belong to? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitor"
"What drug class does donepezil belong to? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitor"
"What is the clinical use for galantamine, rivastigmine, donepezil and tacrine? Alzheimer's disease"
"Memantine is a(n) NMDA receptor antagonist used to treat Alzheimer's disease"
"Memantine helps prevent excitotoxicity (mediated by Ca2+) in Alzheimer's disease"
"Riluzole is a treatment for ALS that increases survival by decreasing glutamate excitotoxicity"
"Huntington disease may be treated with tetrabenazine or reserpine, which inhibit VMAT, decreasing dopamine vesicle packaging and release"
"What D2 receptor antagonist is used to treat Huntington disease? Haloperidol (typical antipsychotic)"
"Neuromuscular blocking drugs are used to induce muscle paralysis for surgery or mechanical ventilation"
"Neuromuscular blocking drugs are selective for NM nicotinic receptors"
"Which neuromuscular blocking drug is characterized as depolarizing? Succinylcholine"
"Succinylcholine is a strong ACh receptor agonist that produces sustained depolarization and prevents muscle contraction"
"Phase I of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade is characterized as prolonged depolarization"
"Phase II of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade is characterized as repolarized but blocked"
"What is used to reverse phase I of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade? No antidote"
"What is used to reverse phase II of succinylcholine-induced neuromuscular blockade? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors"
"Complications of succinylcholine include hyper-calcemia, hyper-kalemia, and malignant hyperthermia"
"Atracurium and mivacurium are non-depolarizing::depolarizing or non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents"
"Pancuronium, vecuronium, and rocuronium are non-depolarizing::depolarizing or non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents"
"Tubocurarine is a(n) non-depolarizing::depolarizing or non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent"
"The non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents are competitive ACh receptor antagonists"
"What is used to reverse non-depolarizing neuromuscular blockade? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors plus atropine"
"Baclofen exerts its effects by activation of GABAB receptors at the spinal cord level, causing muscle relaxation"
"Baclofen is used to treat muscle spasms (e.g. acute low back pain) and multiple sclerosis (spasticity)"
"Cyclobenzaprine is a centrally acting skeletal muscle relaxant that is structurally related to TCAs"
"Cyclobenzaprine is used to treat muscle spasms"
"The pain in migraines is due to irritation of CN V, meninges, or blood vessels"
"The pain is migraines is mediated by vasoactive peptides on meningeal vessels, which cause vaso-dilation"
"Acute management of migraine headaches includes NSAIDs, triptans, or dihydroergotamine"
"Triptans (e.g. sumatriptan) are 5-HT1B,D receptor agonists"
"Triptans induce vaso-constriction of cerebral and meningeal vessels"
"Triptans prevent release of vasoactive peptides"
"Triptans inhibit trigeminal nerve activation"
"Triptans may cause coronary vasospasm as an adverse effect"
"Triptans are contraindicated in patients with CAD or Prinzmetal angina"
"Triptans may cause mild paresthesias::neurologic complication"
"What treatment for headaches is associated with serotonin syndrome? Triptans"
"Acute management of cluster headaches includes sumatriptan and 100% O2"
"What drug is used for prophylaxis of cluster headaches? Verapamil"
"What drug is used for chronic pain in tension headaches? Amitriptyline"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome results in inflammation and segmental demyelination of peripheral nerves and motor fibers"
"The tissues/organs that have both aldose reductase and sorbitol dehydrogenase include the liver, ovaries, and seminal vesicles"
"Incidence rate = # of new cases / # of people at risk during a specified time period"
"Prevalence = # of existing cases / total # of people in a population at a point in time"
"What is the relationship between prevalence and incidence? prevalence / (1 - prevalence) = incidence * average duration of disease"
"Prevalence is similar to incidence for short duration disease (e.g. common cold)"
"Prevalence is greater than incidence for chronic diseases (e.g. diabetes)"
"Development of an effective treatment for disease causes no change in incidence and decreased prevalence"
"Development of an effective vaccine for disease causes decreased incidence and decreased prevalence"
"If people with a chronic disease live longer, there is no change in incidence and increased prevalence"
"Prevalence is ~ equal to the pretest probability"
"Increased prevalence results in increased positive predictive value"
"Increased prevalence results in decreased negative predictive value"
"Strep pneumoniae is encapsulated and thus will present a problem in sickle cell/asplenic patients"
"Strep pneumoniae polysaccharide vaccine in adults produces an IgM response"
"Strep pneumoniae conjugate vaccine for children produces an IgG response"
"Strep pneumoniae contains IgA protease, allowing bacteria to adhere and colonize the mucous membranes"
"Strep pneumoniae shares the same virulence factor as H. influenzae type b and Neisseria"
"What gram positive organisms commonly colonize previously damaged heart valves? Streptococcus viridans; Enterococcus spp.; Strep bovis::3"
"What organism is formed on dental plaques? S. viridans (mutans and sanguinis)"
"Vancomycin resistance occurs in Enterococcus spp. (VRE) via amino acid modification of D-Ala-D-Ala to D-Ala-D-Lac"
"VanA gene from vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus to S. aureus is an example of transposition"
"Point prevalence refers to the amount of an existing condition present in a population at a single point in time"
"Period prevalence refers to the amount of an existing condition present in a population during a particular time period"
"Case-control studies are observational studies that compare a group of people with disease to a group without disease"
"Case-control studies are almost always retro-spective"
"Are case-control studies useful for measuring incidence and/or prevalence? Neither :)"
"Case-control studies are useful for measuring odds ratio (OR)"
"Cross-sectional surveys are observational studies that compare a frequency of disease and frequency of risk related factors at one time point"
"Are cross-sectional surveys useful for measuring incidence and/or prevalence? Prevalence"
"Cohort studies are observational studies that compares groups with a given exposure or risk factor to a group without such exposure"
"Which type of observational study can be retro- or prospective? Cohort study"
"Cohort studies are useful for calculating relative risk (RR)"
"Are cohort studies useful for measuring incidence and/or prevalence? Incidence"
"Twin concordance studies are observational studies that compare the frequency with which monozygotic and dizygotic twins develop the same disease"
"Adoption studies are observational studies that compare siblings raised by biological versus adoptive parents"
"Both twin concordance and adoption studies are useful for measuring \nature vs. nurture\\"\""
"Phase I of clinical trials assesses safety, toxicity, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics"
"Phase I of clinical trials uses a small number of healthy volunteers or patients with disease of interest"
"Phase II of clinical trials assesses optimal dosing, treatment efficacy, and adverse effects"
"Phase II of clinical trials uses a small number of patients with a disease of interest"
"Phase III of clinical trials uses a large number of patients randomly assigned either to a treatment under investigation or the best available treatment (or placebo)"
"Phase III of clinical trials assesses efficacy compared to the standard of care, as well as adverse effects"
"Phase IV of clinical trials is the postmarketing surveillance of patients after a treatment is approved"
"Phase IV of clinical trials detects rare or long-term adverse effects"
"Sensitivity is the probability that when the disease is present, the test is positive"
"Sensitivity values approaching 100% is desirable for ruling OUT::in or out disease"
"The false negative rate of a test is equal to 1 - sensitivity"
"A high sensitivity::sensitivity or specificity test is useful for screening in diseases with low prevalence"
"Specificity is the probability that when the disease is absent, the test is negative"
"Specificity values approaching 100% is desirable for ruling IN::in or out disease"
"The false positive rate of a test is equal to 1 - specificity"
"A high specificity test is useful for confirmation after a positive screening test"
"Positive predictive value is the probability that when the test is positive, the disease is present"
"Positive predictive value varies directly with pretest probability (prevalence)"
"Negative predictive value is the probability that when the test is negative, the disease is absent"
"Negative predictive value varies inversely with pretest probability (prevalence)"
"When lowering the cutoff point for a disease, the sensitivity and NPV will increase::increase or decrease"
"When lowering the cutoff point for a disease, the specificity and PPV will decrease::increase or decrease"
"When raising the cutoff point for a disease, the sensitivity and NPV will decrease::increase or decrease"
"When raising the cutoff point for a disease, the specificity and PPV will increase::increase or decrease"
"Which type of observational study is best for studying rare diseases? Case-control studies"
"What type of study is at the pinnacle of the hierarchy of medical evidence? Meta analysis"
"Precision (reliability) is the consistency and reproducibility of a test"
"Precision may also be referred to as reliability"
"Precision is decreased by random error in a test"
"Increased precision is associated with decreased standard deviation"
"Increased precision is associated with increased statistical power (1 - β)"
"Accuracy (validity) is the trueness of test measurements"
"Accuracy may also be referred to as validity"
"Accuracy is decreased by systematic error in a test"
"Below is an example of high precision and high accuracy:"
"Below is an example of high precision and low accuracy:"
"Below is an example of low precision and high accuracy:"
"Below is an example of low precision and low accuracy:"
"Likelihood ratios can be multiplied with pretest odds of disease to estimate posttest odds"
"Positive likelihood ratio = sensitivity / (1 - specificity)"
"Positive LR > 10 is an indicator of a very useful diagnostic test"
"Negative LR < 0.1 is an indicator of a very useful diagnostic test"
"Negative likelihood ratio = (1 - sensitivity) / specificity"
"What equation is used to calculate odds ratio using the table below? OR = (A/C) / (B/D) = (A*D) / (B*C)"
"What equation is used to calculate relative risk using the table below? "
"If 21% of smokers develop lung cancer versus only 1% of nonsmokers, the relative risk = 21"
"For rare diseases (low prevalence), odds ratio approximates relative risk"
"If relative risk = 1, there is no association between exposure and disease"
"If relative risk > 1, exposure is associated with increased disease occurrence"
"If relative risk < 1, exposure is associated with decreased disease occurrence"
"Attributable risk is defined as the difference in risk between exposed and unexposed groups"
"If 21% of smokers develop lung cancer versus only 1% of nonsmokers, the attributable risk = 20"
"What equation is used to calculate attributable risk using the table below? "
"Relative risk reduction is the proportion of risk reduction attributable to an intervention compared to a control"
"Relative risk reduction is equal to 1 - relative risk"
"If 2% of patients who receive a flu shot develop the flu, while 8% of unvaccinated patients develop the flu, relative risk reduction is 0.75"
"Absolute risk reduction is the difference in risk attributable to an intervention compared to a control"
"If 2% of patients who receive a flu shot develop the flu, while 8% of unvaccinated patients develop the flu, absolute risk reduction is 6% (.06)"
"What equation is used to calculate absolute risk reduction using the table below? "
"The number needed to treat (NNT) is equal to 1/ARR"
"The number needed to harm (NNH) is equal to 1/AR"
"Jaundice is a yellow discoloration of the skin and/or sclera"
"What is the earliest sign of jaundice? Scleral icterus"
"Jaundice is due to increased serum bilirubin, typically > 2.5 mg/dL"
"Does hemolysis result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Unconjugated"
"Hemolysis is associated with dark urine due to increased urine urobilinogen"
"Physiological neonatal jaundice occurs due to transiently low UDP-glucuronyl transferase activity at birth"
"Does physiological neonatal jaundice result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Unconjugated"
"In physiological neonatal jaundice, unconjugated bilirubin deposits in the brain, especially in the basal ganglia"
"Kernicterus is the deposition of bilirubin in the brain, especially basal ganglia, causing neurologic deficits and possibly death"
"What is the treatment for physiologic neonatal jaundice? Non-UV phototherapy"
"How does phototherapy treat neonatal jaundice? Isomerize UCB to water-soluble form"
"What is the mode of inheritance of hereditary hyperbilirubinemias (e.g. Gilbert, Crigler-Najjar, Dubin-Johnson)? Autosomal recessive"
"Gilbert syndrome is due to mildly low UDP-glucuronyl transferase activity"
"Gilbert syndrome presents with jaundice during stress, illness, or fasting"
"Does Gilbert syndrome result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Unconjugated"
"Crigler-Najjar syndrome is due to absent UDP-glucuronyl transferase activity"
"Does Crigler-Najjar syndrome result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Unconjugated"
"Crigler-Najjar syndrome causes jaundice and kernicterus early in life; patients often die within a few years"
"Which form of Crigler-Najjar syndrome is more severe? Type I"
"What are the treatments for Crigler-Najjar syndrome type I? Plasmapheresis and phototherapy::2"
"Crigler-Najjar syndrome type II is less severe and responds to phenobarbital, which increases liver enzyme synthesis"
"Dubin-Johnson syndrome is due to a deficiency of bilirubin canalicular transport protein"
"Does Dubin-Johnson syndrome result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Conjugated"
"Dubin-Johnson syndrome presents with a grossly black liver, but is otherwise not clinically significant"
"Rotor syndrome is similar to Dubin-Johnson syndrome, but milder and WITHOUT black liver"
"Does Rotor syndrome result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Conjugated"
"What type of jaundice is associated with gallstones, parasites, and liver fluke? Obstructive jaundice"
"What type of jaundice is associated with cholangiocarcinoma and pancreatic carcinoma? Obstructive jaundice"
"Does biliary tract obstruction (obstructive jaundice) result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Conjugated"
"Obstructive jaundice is associated with dark urine due to increased urine conjugated bilirubin"
"Obstructive jaundice is associated with decreased urine urobilinogen"
"Obstructive jaundice is associated with pale stools"
"Obstructive jaundice is associated with increased serum bile acids, which may cause pruritus"
"Obstructive jaundice is associated with hypercholesterolemia, which may cause xanthomas::skin finding"
"Obstructive jaundice is associated with steatorrhea::GI symptom, with malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins"
"Does viral hepatitis result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Both :)"
"Viral hepatitis is associated with dark urine due to increased urine conjugated bilirubin"
"Viral hepatitis is associated with normal or decreased urine urobilinogen"
"In addition to hepatitis virus, viral hepatitis may also be caused by EBV and CMV"
"Viral hepatitis is characterized by elevated liver enzymes with ALT > AST"
"Acute hepatitis is associated with inflammation that involves the lobules of the liver and portal tracts; characterized by apoptosis of hepatocytes"
"Chronic hepatitis is associated with inflammation that primarily involves the portal tracts"
"Cirrhosis is characterized by disruption of normal hepatic parenchyma by bands of fibrosis and regenerative nodules of hepatocytes"
"The fibrosis seen in cirrhosis is mediated by TGF-β from stellate (ito) cells"
"Alcoholic cirrhosis may be associated with sclerosis around central veins in early disease"
"Cirrhosis is often complicated by portal hypertension"
"Does cirrhosis result in unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Both :)"
"What is the most common cause of portal hypertension in Western countries? Cirrhosis"
"Portal hypertension may be caused by vascular obstruction, such as portal vein thrombosis and Budd-Chiari syndrome"
"What parasitic infection is associated with portal hypertension? Schistosomiasis"
"Portal hypertension can lead to ascites, which is fluid in the peritoneal cavity"
"Portal hypertension may lead to portosystemic shunts, which can result in esophageal varices, gastric varices, anorectal varices, and caput medusae"
"Portal hypertension may lead to congestive splenomegaly and hypersplenism"
"Hepatorenal syndrome is a complication of portal hypertension characterized by rapidly developing renal failure, secondary to cirrhosis"
"Cirrhosis may present with neuropsychiatric symptoms due to increased serum ammonia (NH3)"
"Neuropsychiatric symptoms of cirrhosis include hepatic encephalopathy and asterixis (\flapping tremor\\")\""
"Is hepatic encephalopathy reversible or irreversible? Reversible"
"Hepatic encephalopathy may be triggered by increased NH3 production or absorption, such as increased dietary protein"
"Hepatic encephalopathy may be triggered by decreased NH3 removal, such as renal failure"
"What antibiotics are used to treat hepatic encephalopathy? rifaximin and neomycin::2"
"What osmotic laxative is used to treat hepatic encephalopathy? Lactulose"
"Dermatologic symptoms of cirrhosis include jaundice, spider angiomas, palmar erythema, and petechiae/purpura"
"How do levels of estrogen change in cirrhosis? Increased"
"Increased estrogen in cirrhosis may lead to spider angiomas and palmar erythema (dermatologic symptoms)"
"Increased estrogen in cirrhosis may lead to gynecomastia, testicular atrophy, and amenorrhea (reproductive symptoms)"
"Cirrhosis may present with peripheral edema, secondary to hypoalbuminemia"
"Cirrhosis may present with coagulopathies due to decreased synthesis of clotting factors"
"Is liver failure followed with PT or PTT? PT"
"What odor may be associated with cirrhosis? Fetor hepaticus"
"What is the most common cause of liver disease in the West? Alcohol consumption"
"Which alcoholic liver disease is characterized by macrovesicular fatty change with a heavy, greasy liver? Hepatic steatosis"
"Hepatic steatosis is characterized by macro-vesicular fatty change"
"Which form of alcoholic liver disease may be reversible with abstinence? Hepatic steatosis"
"Alcoholic hepatitis is characterized by swelling of hepatocytes with necrosis and neutrophilic infiltration"
"Alcoholic hepatitis is characterized histologically by mallory bodies, which are intracytoplasmic eosinophilic inclusions of damaged keratin (intermediate) filaments"
"The liver damage in alcoholic hepatitis is mediated by acetaldehyde"
"Alcoholic hepatitis may present with painful::painful or painless hepatomegaly"
"Alcoholic hepatitis is characterized by elevated liver enzymes with ALT < AST"
"Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with obesity and metabolic syndrome"
"Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is characterized by fatty infiltration of hepatocytes with cellular \ballooning\\" and eventual necrosis\""
"Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is characterized by elevated liver enzymes with ALT > AST"
"Hemochromatosis is characterized by organ damage, secondary to excess iron"
"The tissue damage in hemochromatosis is mediated by the generation of free radicals"
"Hemochromatosis may be primary; due to autosomal recessive::inheritance pattern mutations in iron absorption"
"Hemochromatosis typically presents after age 40, when total body iron > 20g"
"Hemochromatosis has a slowed progression in women::gender"
"Why does hemochromatosis have a slowed progression in women? Iron loss through menstruation"
"Hemochromatosis may be secondary; due to chronic transfusions"
"Primary hemochromatosis is due to mutations in the HFE gene on chromosome 6, leading to increased expression of DMT1 and decreased synthesis of Hepcidin"
"Hemochromatosis is associated with HLA-A3"
"What point mutations in the HFE gene are typically seen with primary hemochromatosis? C282Y (more common) and H63D"
"Hemochromatosis classically presents with a triad of cirrhosis, diabetes mellitus, and bronze skin"
"Hemochromatosis can cause restrictive cardiomyopathy or dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Hemochromatosis may cause gonadal dysfunction in males due to testicular atrophy"
"Hemochromatosis may cause arthropathy, especially in metacarpophalangeal (MCP)::specific hand joints"
"The arthropathy in hemochromatosis occurs due to calcium pyrophosphate deposition"
"What is a common cause of death in hemochromatosis? Hepatocellular carcinoma"
"Hemochromatosis is characterized by increased ferritin"
"Hemochromatosis is characterized by decreased TIBC"
"Hemochromatosis is characterized by increased serum iron"
"Hemochromatosis is characterized by increased % saturation"
"Liver biopsy of a patient with hemochromatosis reveals accumulation of brown::color pigment in hepatocytes"
"The coarse yellowish-brown pigment in hepatocytes / kupffer cells from hemochromatosis may be distinguished from lipofuscin by staining with Prussian blue"
"Lipofuscin is a yellow-brown \wear and tear\\" pigment associated with normal aging\""
"Which part of the cell does lipofuscin accumulate? Lysosomes"
"Deposits of lipofuscin are commonly found in the liver, heart, colon, kidney, and eye of elderly individuals; and are caused by lipid peroxidation"
"Treatment for hemochromatosis may include repeated phlebotomy"
"What type of drug are deferasirox, deferoxamine, and deferiprone (oral)? Iron chelators"
"What GI disorder may be treated with deferasirox, deferoxamine, and oral deferiprone? Hemochromatosis"
"Wilson disease is caused by a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance defect in ATP-mediated hepatocyte copper transport"
"Wilson disease is due to mutations in the ATP7B gene on chromosome 13"
"Wilson disease results in lack of copper transport into bile and lack of incorporation into ceruloplasmin"
"Wilson disease is also known as hepatolenticular degeneration"
"Wilson disease is characterized by accumulation of copper, especially in the liver, brain, cornea, and kidneys"
"Wilson disease typically presents before age 40"
"Wilson disease often presents with cirrhosis, due to copper accumulation in the liver"
"Wilson disease often presents with neuropsychiatric manifestations, due to copper deposition and resultant cystic degeneration in the putamen and other adjacent structures"
"Wilson disease presents with Kayser-Fleischer rings due to copper deposits in Descemet's membrane of the cornea"
"Wilson disease may present with renal disease, such as Fanconi syndrome"
"Wilson disease is characterized by decreased serum ceruloplasmin"
"Wilson disease is characterized by increased urinary copper"
"What type of drugs are penicillamine and trientine? Copper chelators"
"Wilson disease may be treated with oral zinc or chelating agents (e.g. penicillamine, trientine)"
"Biliary tract diseases (e.g. PSC, PBC) present with features of obstructive jaundice"
"Does biliary tract disease (e.g. PBC, PSC) result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Conjugated"
"Biliary tract diseases (e.g. PBC, PSC) are associated with increased serum cholesterol"
"Primary biliary cholangitis is a(n) autoimmune granulomatous destruction of intra-hepatic bile ducts"
"Does primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) affect intra- or extrahepatic bile ducts? Intrahepatic"
"Histologically, Primary biliary cholangitis is characterized by lymphocytic infiltrate and granulomas"
"What demographic is classically affected by primary biliary cholangitis (PBC)? Middle-aged women (~ 40 y.o)"
"Which biliary tract disease is classically seen in middle-aged women and presents with generalized pruritis and fatigue? Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC)"
"Primary biliary cholangitis is associated with other autoimmune diseases"
"Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is associated with anti-mitochondrial antibody"
"Which biliary tract disease is caused by extrahepatic biliary obstruction? Secondary biliary cholangitis"
"Secondary biliary cholangitis occurs in patients with known obstructive lesions (e.g. gallstones, biliary strictures, pancreatic carcinoma)"
"Secondary biliary cholangitis may be complicated by ascending cholangitis"
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis is characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of both intra- and extrahepatic bile ducts"
"Does primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) affect intra- or extrahepatic bile ducts? Both :)"
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis causes periductal fibrosis with an \onion-skin\\" appearance histologically\""
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis is characterized by a \beading\\" appearance of intra- and extrahepatic bile ducts on ERCP and MRCP\""
"What demographic is classically affected by primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC)? Middle-aged men (classically with IBD)"
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis is associated with p-ANCA antibody"
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis and primary biliary cholangitis are associated with increased serum IgM"
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis is associated with increased risk for cholangiocarcinoma and gallbladder cancer"
"What is a late complication associated with biliary tract disease (e.g. PBC, PSC)? Cirrhosis"
"Reye syndrome is fulminant liver failure and encephalopathy in children with viral illness who take aspirin"
"Reye syndrome may occur due to decreased β-oxidation secondary to reversible inhibition of mitochondrial enzymes in hepatocytes by aspirin metabolites"
"Reye syndrome presents with micro-vesicular fatty change in the liver, hypoglycemia, vomiting, hepatomegaly, and eventually coma/death"
"What viruses classically cause Reye syndrome when treated with aspirin? Influenza B and VZV"
"Hepatic adenomas are rare, benign tumors associated with OCP and anabolic steroid use; regress upon cessation of drug"
"Hepatic adenomas may rupture, causing intraperitoneal bleeding, especially during pregnancy"
"Hepatic adenomas are subcapsular tumors and grow with exposure to estrogen"
"Hepatic angiosarcoma is a malignant tumor associated with exposure to arsenic and vinyl chloride"
"Cavernous hemangiomas are common, benign tumors involving the deeper tissues of the body (ex. liver, brain) that typically occur from age 30 - 50 years"
"Cavernous hemangiomas should NOT be biopsied due to risk of fatal hemorrhage"
"Hepatocellular carcinoma (hepatoma) is the most common primary malignant liver tumor in adults"
"Risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma include chronic hepatitis (e.g. HBV, HCV)"
"Risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma include causes of cirrhosis (e.g. alcohol, NAFLD, hemochromatosis, Wilson disease, A1AT deficiency)"
"Risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma include aflatoxins derived from Aspergillus"
"Hepatocellular carcinoma increases risk for Budd-Chiari syndrome"
"In addition to HCC, Budd-Chiari syndrome may also be seen with hypercoagulable and post-partum states"
"What myeloproliferative disorder is associated with Budd-Chiari syndrome? Polycythemia vera"
"Budd-Chiari syndrome is liver infarction secondary to hepatic vein obstruction"
"Budd-Chiari syndrome presents with painful::painful or painless hepatomegaly, ascites, varices, and liver failure"
"Budd-Chiari syndrome results in congestion and necrosis of the centrilobular zone of the liver"
"Does Budd-Chiari syndrome present with jugular venous distention (JVD)? No"
"Budd-Chiari syndrome is associated with a characteristic \nutmeg\\" appearance of the liver\""
"How does hepatocellular carcinoma spread? Hematogenously"
"What is the serum tumor marker for hepatocellular carcinoma? Alpha-fetoprotein"
"Which is more common, primary liver tumors or metastasis to the liver? Metastasis"
"Does metastasis to the liver typically present as a single or multiple nodules? Multiple"
"Metastasis to the liver may be detected clinically as hepatomegaly with a(n) nodular free edge of the liver"
"Spontaneous (primary) bacterial peritonitis is a common, potentially fatal bacterial infection in patients with cirrhosis and ascites"
"Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is commonly caused by aerobic, gram negative organisms, especially E. coli and Klebsiella"
"Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is diagnosed by paracentesis with ascitic fluid absolute neutrophil count > 250 cells/mm3"
"AST > ALT in nonalcoholic liver disease suggests progression to advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis"
"Which liver enzyme is increased in cholestasis (e.g. biliary obstruction), infiltrative disorders, and bone disease? Alkaline phosphatase"
"Which liver enzyme is increased in various liver/biliary diseases, but NOT in bone disease? γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT)"
"γ-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) is associated with alcohol use"
"How does prothrombin time (PT) change with advanced liver disease? Increased"
"How do platelet levels change with advanced liver disease? Decreased"
"How do platelet levels change with portal hypertension? Decreased"
"Which embryological structure develops into the GI tract from the lower esophagus to the proximal duodenum? Foregut"
"Which embryological structure develops into the GI tract from the distal duodenum to the proximal 2/3 of the transverse colon? Midgut"
"Which embryological structure develops into the GI tract from the distal 1/3 of the transverse colon to the anal canal above the pectinate line? Hindgut"
"Which embryological structure develops into the liver and gallbladder? Foregut"
"During the 6th week of gestation, the midgut herniates through the umbilical ring"
"During the 10th week of gestation, the midgut returns to the abdominal cavity and rotates 270° counterclockwise around the superior mesenteric artery"
"Congenital umbilical hernia is a failure of umbilical ring to close after physiologic herniation of the intestines"
"The main pancreatic duct drains into the major duodenal papilla"
"The accessory pancreatic duct drains into the minor duodenal papilla"
"The retroperitoneal structures of the GI tract may be remembered with the mnemonic \SAID PUCKER\\": S: Suprarenal (adrenal) glands AI: Aorta and IVC D: Duodenum (2nd through 4th part) P: Pancreas (except tail)::except... U: Ureters C: Colon (ascending and descending) *surgeons consider these intraperitoneal K: Kidney E: Esophagus (thoracic portion) R: Rectum (partially)\""
"Which GI ligament connects the liver to the anterior abdominal wall? Falciform ligament"
"What structure is contained within the falciform ligament? Ligamentum teres hepatis (derivative of fetal umbilical vein)"
"Which GI ligament is a derivative of ventral mesentery? Falciform ligament"
"Which GI ligament connects the liver to the duodenum? Hepatoduodenal ligament"
"What structure is contained within the hepatoduodenal ligament? Portal triad (proper hepatic artery, portal vein, common bile duct)"
"The Pringle maneuver involves compression of the hepatoduodenal ligament to control liver bleeding"
"The hepatoduodenal ligament borders the omental foramen, which connects the greater and lesser sacs"
"Which GI ligament connects the liver to the lesser curvature of the stomach? Gastrohepatic ligament"
"What structure is contained within the gastrohepatic ligament? Gastric arteries"
"The gastrohepatic ligament separates the greater and lesser sacs on the right::left or right"
"Which GI ligament may be cut during surgery to access the lesser sac? Gastrohepatic ligament"
"The lesser omentum is formed by the gastrohepatic and hepatoduodenal ligaments"
"Which GI ligament connects the greater curvature of the stomach to the transverse colon? Gastrocolic ligament"
"What structure is contained within the gastrocolic ligament? Gastroepiploic arteries"
"Which GI ligament connects the greater curvature of the stomach to the spleen? Gastrosplenic ligament"
"What structures are contained within the gastrosplenic ligament? Short gastric arteries and left gastroepiploic vessels"
"The gastrosplenic ligament separates the greater and lesser sacs on the left::left or right"
"The greater omentum is formed by the gastrocolic and gastrosplenic ligaments"
"Which GI ligament connects the spleen to the posterior abdominal wall? Splenorenal ligament"
"What structures are contained within the splenorenal ligament? Splenic artery/vein and the tail of the pancreas"
"What type of epithelium lines the esophagus? Non-keratinized stratified squamous epithelium"
"The surface of the stomach is marked histologically by closely spaced grooves called gastric pits, into which several gastric glands secrete"
"The gastric glands of the stomach contain the mucous cells, chief cells, and parietal cells"
"The chief::chief or parietal cells of the stomach stain baso-philic"
"The parietal::chief or parietal cells of the stomach stain eosino-philic"
"What type of epithelium lines the small and large intestine? Simple columnar epithelium"
"All three parts of the small intestine contain villi and microvilli, which increase absorptive surface area"
"All three parts of the small intestine contain crypts of Lieberkühn"
"Where are the stem cells of the small intestine located? Crypts of Lieberkühn::specific name"
"The crypts of Lieberkühn contain Paneth cells, which secrete defensins, lysozyme, and TNF"
"What histologic feature distinguishes the duodenum from other parts of the small intestine? Brunner glands (in submucosa)"
"Brunner glands secrete a mucus-rich secretion that contains HCO3-"
"What histologic feature distinguishes the jejunum from other parts of the small intestine? Plicae circulares"
"What histologic feature distinguishes the ileum from other parts of the small intestine? Peyer patches"
"Which part of the small intestine contains the largest number of goblet cells? Ileum"
"Does the large intestine contain crypts of Lieberkühn? Yes"
"Does the large intestine contain villi? No"
"The large intestine is characterized histologically by abundant goblet cells"
"What vertebral level does the celiac artery branch off the aorta? T12/L1"
"What vertebral level does the superior mesenteric artery branch off the aorta? L1"
"What vertebral level does the inferior mesenteric artery branch off the aorta? L3"
"Which artery supplies the regions of the foregut? Celiac trunk"
"Which artery supplies the regions of the midgut? Superior mesenteric artery"
"Which artery supplies the regions of the hindgut? Inferior mesenteric artery"
"What vertebral level does the renal artery branch off the aorta? L1/L2"
"What vertebral level does the gonadal artery branch off the aorta? L1/L2"
"Does the renal artery branch off the aorta superior or inferior to the gonadal artery? Superior"
"What artery branches off the aorta anterior to the IVC? Gonadal artery"
"Which parasympathetics innervate the regions of the foregut and midgut? Vagus nerve"
"Which parasympathetics innervate the regions of the hindgut? Pelvic splanchnic nerves (S2-S4)"
"Which sympathetics innervate the regions of the foregut and midgut? Greater and lesser splanchnics (T5 - T12)::2"
"Which sympathetics innervate the regions of the hindgut? Lumbar splanchnics (L1 - L2)"
"Superior mesenteric artery syndrome occurs due to compression of the 3rd (transverse) part of the duodenum between the SMA and aorta"
"SMA syndrome is characterized by intermittent obstruction symptoms; primarily postprandial pain"
"SMA syndrome typically occurs in conditions associated with diminished mesenteric fat (e.g. low body weight, malnutrition)"
"The foregut develops into structures from the lower esophagus to the proximal duodenum"
"The midgut develops into structures from the distal duodenum to the proximal 2/3 of the transverse colon"
"The hindgut develops into structures from the distal 1/3 of the transverse colon to the anal canal above the pectinate line"
"What vertebral level does the aorta bifurcate into the left and right common iliac arteries? L4"
"The three branches of the celiac trunk are the common hepatic, splenic, and left gastric arteries"
"The left gastric artery gives off esophageal branches"
"The common hepatic artery bifurcates into the proper hepatic and gastroduodenal arteries"
"The proper hepatic artery gives rise to the right gastric artery"
"The gastroduodenal artery gives rise to the right gastroepiploic artery"
"The gastroduodenal artery gives rise to the anterior superior and posterior superior pancreaticoduodenal arteries"
"The splenic artery gives rise to the left gastroepiploic and short gastric arteries"
"ID Artery: Left gastroepiploic"
"ID Artery: Splenic"
"ID Artery: Right gastroepiploic"
"ID Artery: Left gastric"
"ID Artery: Right gastric"
"ID Artery: Common hepatic"
"ID Artery: Gastroduodenal"
"ID Artery: Short gastric arteries"
"Strong anastomoses exist between the left gastroepiploic artery and the right gastroepiploic artery"
"Strong anastomoses exist between the left gastric artery and the right gastric artery"
"The greater curvature of the stomach is supplied by the gastroepiploic arteries"
"The lesser curvature of the stomach is supplied by the gastric arteries"
"The fundus and upper portion of the greater curvature of the stomach are supplied by the short gastric arteries"
"Esophageal varices result from portosystemic shunting between the left gastric (portal) and esophageal branch of the azygos (systemic) veins"
"Caput medusae results from portosystemic shunting between the paraumbilical veins (portal) and small epigastric veins of the abdominal wall (systemic)"
"Anorectal varices result from portosystemic shunting between the superior rectal (portal) and middle/inferior rectal (systemic) veins"
"Portosystemic shunts may be treated with TIPS between the portal and hepatic veins"
"Treatment of portosystemic shunts with TIPS can precipitate hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients"
"The pectinate (dentate) line is formed where anal endoderm (hindgut) meets ectoderm"
"Which type of hemorrhoids are found above the pectinate line? Internal hemorrhoids"
"Which type of carcinoma forms above the pectinate line? Adenocarcinoma"
"Which artery supplies the rectum above the pectinate line? Superior rectal artery (from the IMA)"
"The superior rectal artery is a branch of the inferior mesenteric artery"
"Which lymph nodes drain the rectum above the pectinate line? Internal iliac nodes"
"Internal hemorrhoids receive visceral innervation from pelvic splanchnic nerves"
"Which type of hemorrhoid is NOT painful? Internal hemorrhoids"
"Does the rectum ABOVE the pectinate line drain into the portal or systemic circulation? Portal"
"Which type of hemorrhoids are found below the pectinate line? External hemorrhoids"
"Which type of carcinoma forms below the pectinate line? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Which artery supplies the rectum below the pectinate line? Inferior rectal artery (from the internal pudendal artery)"
"The inferior rectal artery is a branch of the internal pudendal artery"
"Which lymph nodes drain the rectum below the pectinate line? Superficial inguinal nodes"
"External hemorrhoids receive somatic innervation from the pudendal nerve"
"Which type of hemorrhoid IS painful? External hemorrhoids"
"Does the rectum BELOW the pectinate line drain into the portal or systemic circulation? Systemic"
"Anal fissures are described as tears in the anal mucosa below the pectinate line"
"Anal fissures typically present with pain while pooping and blood on toilet paper"
"Anal fissures are typically located posteromedially::direction, because this area is poorly perfused"
"Anal fissures are associated with constipation and low-fiber diets"
"The portal triad consists of the bile duct, hepatic artery proper, and portal vein"
"Terminal branches of portal veins connect with hepatic sinusoids that converge toward a(n) terminal hepatic (central) vein"
"Blood::blood or bile flows from the portal triad towards the central vein"
"Bile::blood or bile flows from the central vein towards the portal triad"
"What is at the center of each hexagon (liver)? Terminal Hepatic Venule (Central veins)"
"What are the darker areas on the corner of each hexagon (liver)? Portal triads"
"The apical surface of hepatocytes faces bile canaliculi"
"The basolateral surface of hepatocytes faces sinusoids"
"Kupffer cells are specialized macrophages that form the lining of hepatic sinusoids"
"The space of Disse is a narrow space between hepatocytes and the endothelial lining of sinusoids"
"Within the space of Disse are stellate (Ito) cells, which store vitamin A when quiescent"
"Within the space of Disse are stellate (Ito) cells, which produce extracellular matrix when activated"
"Which liver cell is the major mediator of fibrosis in response to tissue damage (e.g. cirrhosis)? Stellate (Ito cells)"
"Zone I of the liver is the periportal zone"
"Zone II of the liver is the intermediate zone"
"Zone III of the liver is the centrilobular (pericentral vein) zone"
"Which liver zone is affected first by viral hepatitis? Zone I (periportal)"
"Which liver zone is affected first by ingested toxins (e.g. cocaine)? Zone I (periportal)"
"Which liver zone is affected by yellow fever? Zone II (intermediate)"
"Which liver zone is affected first by ischemia? Zone III (centrilobular)"
"Which liver zone contains the cytochrome P-450 system? Zone III (centrilobular)"
"Which liver zone is affected first by metabolic toxins (e.g. alcohol, tylenol, ethanol, CCl4, halothane, rifampin)? Zone III (centrilobular)"
"Which liver zone is the site of alcoholic hepatitis? Zone III (centrilobular)"
"The common bile duct is formed by the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct"
"The common bile duct and main pancreatic duct join at the ampulla of Vater"
"What sphincter controls the release of digestive juices from the common bile and pancreatic ducts? Sphincter of Oddi"
"Gallstones that reach the confluence of the common bile and pancreatic ducts at the ampulla of Vater::name of hole can block both ducts (double duct sign) causing cholangitis and pancreatitis"
"Tumors that arise in the head of pancreas can cause obstruction of the common bile duct, leading to an enlarged gallbladder with painless jaundice"
"The organization of the femoral region from lateral to medial is the nerve-artery-vein-lymphatics (NAVeL)"
"What are the contents of the femoral triangle? Femoral nerve, artery, and vein"
"What are the contents of the femoral sheath? Femoral artery, vein, and canal (deep inguinal lymph nodes)"
"The femoral sheath is a fascial tube found 3-4 cm below the inguinal ligament"
"What is the superior border of the femoral triangle? Inguinal ligament"
"What is the lateral border of the femoral triangle? Sartorius muscle"
"What is the medial border of the femoral triangle? Adductor longus muscle"
"The external oblique gives rise to the external spermatic fascia of the spermatic cord"
"The internal oblique muscle gives rise to the cremasteric muscle/fascia of the spermatic cord"
"The transversalis fascia gives rise to the internal spermatic fascia of the spermatic cord"
"A(n) hernia is a protrusion of peritoneum through an opening, usually at a site of weakness"
"Herniated contents may be at risk for incarceration, which is the inability to reduce contents back into the abdomen/pelvis"
"Herniated contents may be at risk for strangulation, which is characterized by ischemia and necrosis"
"Which type of inguinal hernia involves protrusion of the bowel through the internal inguinal ring, external inguinal ring and into the scrotum? Indirect inguinal hernia"
"What is the site of protrusion in an indirect inguinal hernia? Internal (deep) inguinal ring"
"Indirect inguinal hernias herniate lateral to the inferior epigastric vessels"
"Indirect inguinal hernias occur in infants due to failure of the processus vaginalis to close"
"Indirect inguinal hernias are more common in males::gender"
"Which layer(s) of spermatic fascia cover an indirect inguinal hernia? All three :)"
"Which type of inguinal hernia involves protrusion of the bowel through the superficial inguinal ring only? Direct inguinal hernia"
"What is the site of protrusion in a direct inguinal hernia and through what anatomical landmark? Abdominal wall (through Hesselbach triangle)"
"Direct inguinal hernias herniate medial to the inferior epigastric vessels"
"What demographic is more commonly affected by direct inguinal hernias? Older men::age, gender"
"Which layer(s) of spermatic fascia cover a direct inguinal hernia? External spermatic fascia"
"Direct inguinal hernias are usually due to an acquired weakness in the transversalis fascia"
"What is the medial border of the inguinal (Hesselbach) triangle? Lateral border of rectus abdominis"
"What is the lateral border of the inguinal (Hesselbach) triangle? Inferior epigastric vessels"
"What is the inferior border of the inguinal (Hesselbach) triangle? Inguinal (Poupart) ligament"
"Which type of hernia protrudes below the inguinal ligament, lateral to the pubic tubercle? Femoral hernia"
"Which type of hernia is most likely to present with incarceration or strangulation? Femoral hernia"
"Femoral hernias are more common in females::gender"
"Which type of hernia involves protrusion of abdominal structures into the thorax? Diaphragmatic hernia"
"Congenital diaphragmatic hernias occur due a defect in the pleuroperitoneal membrane"
"Congenital diaphragmatic hernia is associated with lung hypoplasia and a(n) scaphoid::shape abdomen"
"Diaphragmatic hernias typically occur on the left::left or right side"
"What is the most common type of diaphragmatic hernia? Sliding hiatal hernia"
"What type of diaphragmatic hernia involves upward displacement of the gastroesophageal junction? Sliding hiatal hernia"
"Sliding hiatal hernias are characterized by an \hourglass\\" stomach appearance on imaging\""
"What type of hiatal hernia involves NO displacement of the gastroesophageal junction? Paraesophageal hernia"
"Paraesophageal hiatal hernias occur due to protrusion of the fundus of the stomach into the thorax"
"Paraesophageal hernias are associated with bowel sounds in lung fields"
"What type of hernia is associated with abdominal trauma? Traumatic diaphragmatic hernia"
"In addition to VIP, what other GI regulatory substance causes relaxation of smooth muscle and sphincters? Nitric oxide"
"Nitric oxide causes relaxation of GI smooth muscle and sphincters (including LES)"
"Peyer patches are unencapsulated lymphoid tissue found in the lamina propria and submucosa of the ileum"
"Peyer patches contain specialized M cells that sample and present antigens to immune cells"
"B cells stimulated in germinal centers of Peyer patches differentiate into IgA-secreting plasma cells, which reside in the lamina propria"
"The best way to visualize Kayser-Fleischer rings in Wilson disease is via slit-lamp examination"
"Non-dihydropyridine CCBs may cause excessive AV block when combined with β-adrenergic antagonists"
"Which type of immunity includes T cells and B cells? Adaptive immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes circulating antibodies? Adaptive immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes macrophages and monocytes? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes neutrophils and dendritic cells? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes NK cells? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes complement? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Is innate immunity specific or nonspecific? Non-specific"
"Does innate immunity have a memory response? No"
"Which type of immunity occurs rapidly, over minutes to hours? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity has limited diversity? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Is adaptive immunity specific or nonspecific? Highly specific"
"Does adaptive immunity have a memory response? Yes"
"Which type of immunity develops over long periods? Adaptive immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity has extensive diversity? Adaptive immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes physical barriers, such as skin and mucous membranes? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes physiologic barriers, such as temperature and pH? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which type of immunity includes chemical barriers, such as lysozyme and defensins? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"Which immunoglobulin isotypes are expressed by mature, naive B-cells? IgM and IgD"
"The antigen receptors of B lymphocytes have two heavy and light chains (bivalent)"
"The antigen receptors of B lymphocytes have a(n) hinge region, which allows for flexibility"
"The signal transduction region of B lymphocytes includes a heterodimer of Ig-α and Ig-β"
"The idio-type of an antibody is determined by the Fab::Fc or Fab region"
"The iso-type of an antibody is determined by the Fc::Fc or Fab region"
"The heavy chain contributes to the Fab and Fc region of an antibody"
"The light chain only contributes to the Fab region of an antibody"
"The mature, naive T cell expresses a single T-cell receptor on its surface"
"The antigen receptors of T lymphocytes have one α and β chain (monovalent)"
"The signal transduction region of T lymphocytes consists of a multi-chain structure known as CD3"
"Is the T-cell antigen receptor mobile or rigid? Rigid (no hinge region)"
"--- Skipped for now --- :) Lymphoid Cell Function B & T cells - Found in bloodstream, lymph nodes, spleen, submucosa, and epithelia B cells: contain markers CD19, CD20, CD21 - Mature into plasma cells - Function is to produce antibodies TH cells: contain markers CD3 and CD4 - Function is to regulate immune responses Cytotoxic T cells: contain markers CD3 and CD8 - Function is to kill infected cells NK cells - Contain markers CD16 and CD56 - Function is to kill tumor/virus cell targets or antibody-coated target cells - T cells can only bind peptides that have been processed and presented by major histocompatibility complexes (MHCs)"
"Antigen-independent antibody diversity in heavy chains is generated by V(D)J gene recombination"
"V(D)J recombination in heavy chains begins with D-J joining, followed by V-D/J joining"
"Antigen-independent antibody diversity in light chains is generated by VJ gene recombination"
"The enzymes responsible for gene recombination in heavy and light chains are encoded by the genes RAG1 and RAG2"
"Antigen-independent antibody diversity is generated via insertion of random nucleotides during V(D)J recombination by the enzyme terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase (Tdt)"
"Antigen-independent antibody diversity is generated via random combination of heavy and light chains"
"Which primary lymphoid organ is the site for immune cell production? Bone marrow *bonus: whats the survival signal?"
"Which primary lymphoid organ is the site of B-cell maturation? Bone marrow"
"Which primary lymphoid organ is the site of T-cell differentiation and maturation? Thymus"
"The secondary lymphoid organs allow immune cells to react with antigen"
"Antigens are brought into a lymph node via afferent lymphatics"
"The outer cortex of a lymph node contains aggregates of cells called follicles"
"Where in the lymph node do B-cells localize and proliferate? Follicles (outer cortex)"
"In lymph nodes, primary follicles are dense and dormant"
"In lymph nodes, secondary follicles have pale, central germinal centers and are active"
"The paracortex is the region of a lymph node between follicles and medulla"
"Where in the lymph node do T-cells localize and proliferate? Paracortex"
"The lymph node paracortex contains high endothelial venules (HEV), through which T and B cells enter from the blood"
"Which region of the lymph node is not well developed in DiGeorge syndrome? Paracortex"
"Which region of the lymph node enlarges during an extreme cellular immune reponse (e.g. viral infection)? Paracortex"
"The inner layer of lymph nodes is the medulla, which consists of medullary cords and sinuses"
"Medullary sinuses within lymph nodes communicate with the efferent lymphatics"
"The medullary sinuses within lymph nodes contain reticular cells and macrophages"
"The medullary cords within lymph nodes contain closely-packed lymphocytes and plasma cells"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the head and neck? Cervical"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the lungs? Hilar"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the trachea and esophagus? Mediastinal"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the upper limb and breast? Axillary"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the skin above the umbilicus? Axillary"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the stomach, spleen, liver, and pancreas? Celiac"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the upper duodenum? Celiac"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the lower duodenum? Superior mesenteric"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the jejunum and ileum? Superior mesenteric"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the proximal colon up to the splenic flexure? Superior mesenteric"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the colon from splenic flexure to upper rectum? Inferior mesenteric"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the bladder? Internal iliac"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the prostate? Internal iliac"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the cervix? Internal iliac"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the testes and ovaries? Para-aortic"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the kidney? Para-aortic"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the uterus? Para-aortic"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the scrotum and vulva? Superficial inguinal"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the skin below the umbilicus? Superficial inguinal"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the dorsolateral foot? Popliteal"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the posterior calf? Popliteal"
"The right lymphatic duct drains lymph from the right side of the body above the diaphragm"
"The thoracic duct drains most lymph into the junction of the left subclavian and left internal jugular veins"
"The spleen is located in the LUQ of the abdomen, behind the 9th - 11th ribs"
"Within the spleen, central arterioles are surrounded by periarterial lymphatic sheaths (PALS)"
"The PALS and lymphoid follicles of the spleen constitute the white pulp"
"Where in the spleen are T-cells found? Periarterial lymphatic sheath (white pulp)"
"Where in the spleen are B-cells found? Follicles (white pulp)"
"Splenic sinusoids are long, vascular channels with fenestrated basement membranes that constitute the red pulp"
"In between the red and white pulp of the spleen is the marginal zone, which contains macrophages and specialized B cells"
"Where in the spleen do Splenic Macrophages capture blood-borne antigens for recognition by lymphocytes? Marginal zone"
"How do platelet levels change post-splenectomy? Increased (thrombocytosis)"
"How do lymphocyte levels change post-splenectomy? Increased (lymphocytosis)"
"What RBC abnormalities are seen on blood smear post-splenectomy? Howell-Jolly bodies and target cells::2"
"Patients undergoing splenectomy should be vaccinated against encapsulated organisms"
"Which immunoglobulin is decreased with splenic dysfunction? IgM"
"The thymus is an encapsulated lymphoid organ located in the anterosuperior mediastinum"
"What branchial pouch develops into the thymus? Third branchial pouch (ventral wing)"
"What is the embryonic origin of lymphocytes in the thymus? Mesenchymal origin"
"The cortex of the thymus is dense and comprised of immature T cells"
"The medulla of the thymus is pale and comprised of mature T cells and Hassall corpuscles"
"Hassall's corpuscles are eosinophilic areas in the thymus composed of epithelial reticular cells"
"Thymoma is a benign neoplasm of thymus associated with myasthenia gravis::immune, SVC syndrome::lung/vascular, pure red cell aplasia and Good syndrome"
"The progenitor B cell lacks cytoplasmic μ and surface IgM/IgD"
"The precursor B cell is characterized by cytoplasmic μ"
"The immature B cell is characterized by surface IgM, but no surface IgD"
"Plasma cells are mature, differentiated B cells characterized by cytoplasmic Ig"
"Memory B cells are mature, differentiated B cells characterized by surface IgG, IgA, or IgE"
"B-cells with self-reactivity in the bone marrow are destroyed by clonal deletion"
"T-cells that are self-reactive in the periphery are inactivated by clonal anergy"
"Major histocompatibility complexes (MHCs) present antigen fragments to T cells and bind T-cell receptors (TCRs)"
"Major histocompatibility complexes (MHCs) are encoded by HLA genes"
"Which MHC class is associated with the gene products of HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C? MHC I"
"Which MHC class is expressed on all nucleated cells and platelets? MHC I"
"MHC I binds to the T-cell receptor (TCR) and CD-8"
"Which MHC class is formed by 1 long chain and 1 short chain? MHC I"
"Which MHC class has a smaller peptide binding groove (8 - 10 AA)? MHC I"
"What protein is associated with MHC I? β2-microglobulin"
"Which MHC class is associated with the gene products of HLA-DP, HLA-DQ, and HLA-DR? MHC II"
"Which MHC class is expressed on antigen presenting cells (APCs), only? MHC II"
"MHC II binds to the T-cell receptor (TCR) and CD-4"
"Which MHC class is formed by 2 equal length chains? MHC II"
"Which MHC class has a larger peptide binding groove (13 - 17 AA)? MHC II"
"What protein is associated with MHC II? Invariant chain"
"How many classes of MHC I are expressed on a single cell? Six"
"Which CD markers (CD4, CD8) does the T-cell precursor express in the bone marrow? None :)"
"Which CD marker(s) (CD4, CD8) does the T-cell express in the thymic cortex? Both CD4 and CD8"
"Which CD marker(s) (CD4, CD8) does the T-cell express in the thymic medulla? Either CD4 or CD8"
"In the thymic medulla, the T cell differentiates into a CD4+ or CD8+ T cell"
"Which type of selection allows survival of T cells expressing TCRs capable of binding self-MHC on cortical epithelial cells? Positive selection"
"Where does positive selection of T cells occur? Thymic cortex"
"Which type of selection causes T cells expressing TCRs with high affinity for self antigens on cortical epithelial cells to either undergo apoptosis or become regulatory T cells Negative selection"
"The tissue-restricted self-antigens expressed in the thymus for negative selection are due to the action of autoimmune regulator (AIRE)"
"Deficiency of autoimmune regulator (AIRE) protein causes autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome-1"
"Where does negative selection of T cells occur? Thymic medulla"
"What non-nucleated cell expresses MHC class I? Platelets"
"MHC I presents endogenously synthesized antigens to CD8+ cytotoxic T cells"
"Antigen loading onto MHC I occurs in the RER after breakdown of endogenous antigen by the proteasome in the cytosol, and delivery to the RER via TAP (transporter associated with antigen processing)"
"MHC II presents exogenously synthesized antigens to CD4+ helper T cells"
"Antigen loading onto MHC II occurs following release of the invariant chain in a(n) acidified endosome"
"The first signal for T-cell activation is binding between the TCR and MHC/peptide complex"
"The second signal for T-cell activation is a costimulatory signal via interaction between B7 (APC) and CD28 (T cell)"
"Differentiation of helper T cells to Th2 is induced by IL-2 and IL-4"
"Differentiation of helper T cells to Th2 is inhibited by IFN-γ"
"What class of helper T cell secretes IL-4, -5, -6, -10, and -13? Th2"
"What class of helper T cell recruits eosinophils for parasite defense? Th2"
"What class of helper T cell promotes IgE production by B cells? Th2"
"What class of helper T cell promotes humoral immunity? Th2"
"Differentiation of helper T cells to Th1 is induced by IFN-γ and IL-12"
"Differentiation of helper T cells to Th1 is inhibited by IL-4 and IL-10 (from Th2 cells)"
"What class of helper T cell secretes IFN-γ and IL-2? Th1"
"Th1 cells secrete IFN-γ and IL-2"
"What class of helper T cell activates macrophages and cytotoxic T cells? Th1"
"What class of helper T cell promotes cell-mediated immunity? Th1"
"Differentiation of helper T cells to Treg is induced by TGF-β and IL-2; inhibited by IL-6"
"What class of helper T cell helps maintain specific immune tolerance by suppressing CD4 and CD8 T-cell effector functions? Regulatory T (TReg) cells"
"Regulatory T cells are identified by expression of CD3, CD4, CD25, and FOXP3"
"Activated regulatory T cells produce IL-10 and TGF-β (anti-inflammatory cytokines)"
"Differentiation of helper T cells to Th17 is induced by IL-1, IL-6 and TGF-β"
"What class of helper T cell are believed to play a role in tissue damage associated with autoimmune disease? Th17 cells"
"Which type of immunity responds to antigens with antibodies from plasma cells? Humoral immunity::humoral or cell-mediated"
"Humoral immunity is used to defend against extra-cellular agents"
"Is humoral immunity primarily mediated by B-cells or T-cells? B-cells"
"B-cell activation begins with presentation of foreign antigen on MHC II, which is recognized by a T-cell receptor"
"B-cell activation requires a costimulatory signal from binding between the CD40 receptor (B cell) and CD40 ligand (Th2 cell)"
"Antigens that lack a(n) peptide component are not recognizable by T cells and thus stimulate B cells directly"
"Do thymus-independent antigens result in immunologic memory? No"
"What is the only immunoglobulin that can be secreted in response to thymus-independent antigens? IgM"
"One example of a thymus-independent antigen is lipopolysaccharides (LPS) from gram negative bacteria"
"Do thymus-dependent antigens result in immunologic memory? Yes"
"Which type of antibody digestion results in 2 monovalent Fab regions and 1 Fc region? Papain cleavage"
"Which type of antibody digestion results in 1 bivalent Fab region and 1 Fc region? Pepsin cleavage"
"Which immunoglobulin isotypes can exist as a monomer? All Ig types"
"IgM exists as a(n) monomer on the surface of B cells"
"IgM exists as a(n) pentamer held by a J chain when secreted"
"How many identical antigens can a single IgM molecule bind? 10"
"Does IgM fix complement? Yes"
"Does IgM cross the placenta? No"
"Which immunoglobulin is produced first in response to an infection? IgM"
"Which immunoglobulin is the main antibody produced during the primary response to antigen? IgM"
"The valence of an antibody refers to the number of sites available to bind epitopes"
"The affinity of an antibody refers to the binding strength for an epitope"
"Which immunoglobulin has the highest avidity? IgM"
"Which immunoglobulin has the highest affinity? IgG"
"Generation of antibody specificity occurs via somatic hypermutation with affinity maturation"
"Where does class switching of IgM take place? Germinal centers of lymph nodes"
"Class switching of IgM is mediated by CD40L and cytokines from Th2::specific cells"
"Class switching to IgA is promoted by IL-5 and TGF-β"
"Class switching to IgE is promoted by IL-4 and IL-13"
"Which immunoglobulin is the main antibody produced during the secondary response to antigen? IgG"
"What is the most abundant immunoglobulin isotype in serum? IgG"
"Does IgG fix complement? Yes"
"Does IgG cross the placenta? Yes"
"Which immunoglobulin(s) fix complement? IgM and IgG"
"Which immunoglobulin(s) cross the placenta? IgG"
"Which immunoglobulin opsonizes bacteria? IgG"
"Which immunoglobulin is the most produced antibody overall? IgA"
"IgA exists as a(n) monomer in circulation"
"IgA exists as a(n) dimer held by a J chain when secreted"
"IgA crosses epithelial cells by transcytosis"
"Which immunoglobulin is produced in the GI tract and protects against gut infections? IgA"
"Which immunoglobulin is released into breast milk (colostrum)? IgA"
"Which immunoglobulin is released into secretions (tears, saliva, mucus)? IgA"
"Does IgA fix complement? No"
"Does IgA cross the placenta? No"
"IgA is transported through the mucosa via binding between the J chain of IgA and the polymeric Ig receptor on epithelial cells"
"When IgA is released into the mucosa, the poly Ig receptor becomes the secretory component, which protects IgA from luminal proteases"
"Which immunoglobulin binds directly to mast cells and basophils? IgE"
"IgE cross-links when exposed to allergen, mediating type I hypersensitivity reactions"
"Which immunoglobulin contributes to immunity to worms by activating eosinophils? IgE"
"What is the least abundant immunoglobulin isotype in serum? IgE"
"Which immunoglobulin(s) can be secreted by plasma cells? IgA, IgG, or IgE (one type per plasma cell)"
"Which type of immunity responds to antigens with activated cytotoxic T-cells? Cell-mediated immunity::humoral or cell-mediated"
"Cell-mediated immunity is used to defend against intra-cellular agents"
"Is cell-mediated immunity primarily mediated by B-cells or T-cells? T-cells"
"Cytotoxic (CD8+) T-cells kill virus infected, neoplastic, and donor graft cells by inducing apoptosis"
"Cytotoxic T cells may induce apoptosis of target cells via release of perforins and granzymes, which leads to activation of caspases"
"Cytotoxic T cells may induce apoptosis of target cells via binding of Fas ligand to Fas, which causes release of TNF"
"Which immune cell is a lymphocyte member of the innate immune system? Natural killer (NK) cells"
"Natural killer cells may induce apoptosis of virally infected cells and tumors cells via release of perforins and granzymes"
"Which interferons enhance activity of natural killer cells? Interferon-α and Interferon-β"
"Which interleukins enhance activity of natural killer cells? IL-2 and IL-12"
"Natural killer cells are induced to kill cells that have an absence of MHC I on their cell surface"
"Natural killer cells may kill cells via binding between CD16 (NK cells) and the Fc region of IgG-bound antigen"
"Which immunoglobulin typically mediates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC)? IgG*"
"Superantigens are antigens that cross-link the β region of T-cell receptors to MHC II on APCs outside the normal peptide-binding groove"
"Superantigens can activate any CD4+ T-cell, resulting in massive release of cytokines"
"Anergy refers to a state in which an immune cell cannot become activated by exposure to its antigen"
"T-cells and B-cells become anergic when exposed to their antigen without a costimulatory signal"
"Which type of immunization is acquired by receiving preformed antibodies? Passive immunization"
"Which type of immunization has a rapid onset? Passive immunization"
"Which type of immunization has a short span of duration? Passive immunization"
"Consumption of IgA in breast milk is an example of passive immunization"
"Maternal IgG crossing the placenta is an example of passive immunization"
"Administration of antitoxin or monoclonal antibody is an example of passive immunization"
"One risk of passive immunotherapy is IgE production and anaphylaxis, especially in patients with selective IgA deficiency"
"Toxins that require passive immunity in exposed, unvaccinated patients may be remembered with the mnemonic \To Be Healed Very Rapidly\\": T: Tetanus toxin B: Botulinum toxin H: HBV V: Varicella R: Rabies virus\""
"Which type of immunization is acquired by exposure to foreign antigens? Active immunization"
"Which type of immunization has a slow onset? Active immunization"
"Which type of immunization has a long-lasting protection (memory)? Active immunization"
"Natural infection is an example of active immunization"
"Administration of toxoid is an example of active immunization"
"Administration of vaccines is an example of active immunization"
"Which type of vaccine induces a strong, often lifelong immunity? Live, attenuated vaccines"
"Which type of vaccine has the potential to revert to a virulent form? Live, attenuated vaccines"
"Live attenuated vaccines are often contraindicated in pregnancy and immunodeficiency"
"MMR and varicella are live vaccines that can be given to HIV patients with CD4 counts > 200/mm3"
"Do live attenuated vaccines induce cellular or humoral responses? Both cellular and humoral :)"
"What type of vaccine is the MMR vaccine? Live attenuated"
"What type of vaccine is the rotavirus vaccine? Live attenuated"
"What type of vaccine is the yellow fever vaccine? Live attenuated"
"What type of vaccine is the varicella vaccine? Live attenuated"
"What type of vaccine is the BCG vaccine? Live attenuated"
"What type of vaccine is the intranasal influenza vaccine? Live attenuated"
"Which polio vaccine is a live attenuated (oral) vaccine? Sabin"
"Which type of vaccine is a pathogen that has been inactivated by heat or chemicals? Inactivated/killed vaccine"
"What is an advantage of inactivated vaccines compared to live attenuated? Inactivated vaccines are safer"
"Which types of vaccine induce a relatively weak immune response? Inactivated/killed vaccines and Subunit vaccine::2"
"Do killed/inactivated vaccines induce cellular or humoral responses? Humoral"
"What part of an antigen should be preserved to elicit an immune response when given as an inactivated/killed vaccine? Epitope"
"What type of vaccine is the rabies vaccine? Inactivated/killed"
"What type of vaccine is the injected influenza vaccine? Inactivated/killed"
"Which polio vaccine is an inactivated/killed vaccine? Salk"
"What type of vaccine is the hepatitis A vaccine? Inactivated/killed"
"What is the first type of immunoglobulin produced in a neonate? IgM"
"By age 1, the total antibody level is approximately 60% of adult levels"
"By age 1, the total IgA level is approximately 20% of adult levels"
"What is the only useful immunoglobulin for diagnosing neonatal infections? IgM"
"Some killed vaccines are conjugated to a(n) protein to elicit a stronger immune response (e.g. immunologic memory)"
"Is primary CNS lymphoma typically a B-cell or T-cell neoplasm? B-cell"
"The pathogenesis of primary CNS lymphoma involves EBV infection"
"--- Do with heme --- Type II Hypersensitivity Disorders - Cytotoxic: Transfusion Reaction - Antibody against ABO blood glycoproteins - IgM isohemagglutinins formed naturally in response to bacterial flora cause opsonization and complement activation - Leads to hemolysis **Hemolytic Disease of the Newborn (Erythroblastosis fetalis) Antibody = Anti-RhD+ IgG - Formed in Rh- mother carrying Rh+ child - First pregnancy sensitizes (doesn't have to be viable pregnancy) - Antibody crosses placenta and injures subsequent fetuses - Prevent with RhoGAM (anti-Rh, binds fetal red cells and prevents mothers immune system from reacting) ABO blood typing and screening for other preformed Abs; always done in case of transplants. Universal donor: type O Universal recipient: type AB (Ex) Type A can donate to type A and type AB. Type A can receive donations from type A and type O. - Anti-B antibodies prevent donation from type B and type AB. HLA Typing - Microcytotoxicity test Tests for MHC class I (HLA-A, HLA-B) Test hundreds of different haplotypes to find a potential match. Cells recognized by antibody will be attacked by complement and thus become leaky and take up dye. HLA Typing - Mixed lymphocyte reaction Tests for MHC class II (HLA-DR) Take donor cells and irradiate them (prevent proliferation). Irradiated cells are mixed with donor cells to see if proliferation occurs. Higher radioactivity (thymidine) signifies lower compatibility."
"Which type of hypersensitivity reaction is mediated by cross-linking IgE on presensitized mast cells and basophils? Type I HSR"
"Type I HSR occurs due to cross-linking of IgE on presensitized mast cells and basophils by antigen"
"The immediate response of mast cell and basophil activation is release of preformed histamine granules and tryptase::marker of activation"
"The delayed response of mast cell and basophil activation involves production of chemokines (ex. to attract eosinophils) and cytokines (particularly leukotrienes)"
"Which type of hypersensitivity mediates anaphylaxis (e.g. food, drug, or bee sting allergies)? Type I"
"Which type of hypersensitivity mediates atopic reactions (e.g. asthma, allergic rhinitis)? Type I"
"Skin Pinprick tests or Blood (ELISA) tests for allergen-specific IgE are typically used to diagnose type I hypersensivity reactions"
"Which type of hypersensitivity reaction is mediated by binding of antibodies to cell-surface antigens? Type II HSR"
"Type II HSRs can cause pathology by inducing cellular destruction by opsonizing the target with antibodies"
"Type II HSRs can cause pathology by inducing cellular dysfunction, causing abnormal blockade or activation/inactivation of downstream cellular processes"
"Type II HSRs can cause pathology by inducing inflammation by antibodies depositing on cell surfaces, which in turn activates complement"
"Which immunoglobulins mediate type II hypersensivity reactions? IgM and IgG"
"What test is used to diagnose type II hypersensitivity reactions against RBCs? Coombs test"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction are immune thrombocytopenic purpura and autoimmune-hemolytic anemia? Type II HSR (cellular destruction)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction are hemolytic disease of the newborn and transfusion reactions? Type II HSR (cellular destruction)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is Goodpasture syndrome? Type II HSR (inflammation)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is rheumatic fever? Type II HSR (inflammation)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is hyperacute transplant rejection? Type II HSR (inflammation)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is Graves disease and Myasthenia Gravis? Type II HSR (cellular dysfunction)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is Pemphigus Vulgaris? Type II HSR (cellular dysfunction)"
"Which type of hypersensitivity reaction is characterized by circulating immune complexes? Type III HSR"
"In type III HSRs, antigen-antibody complexes activate complement, which attracts neutrophils"
"Serum sickness is an immune complex disease in which antibodies to foreign serum proteins are produced"
"Serum sickness-like reactions are associated with some drugs acting as haptens (ex. penicillin) and infections (ex. HBV)"
"A(n) hapten is a small antigen that may conjugate with larger proteins to elicit an immune response"
"Serum sickness presents with fever, urticaria, arthralgia, proteinuria, and lymphadenopathy 1 - 2 weeks after antigen exposure"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is serum sickness? Type III HSR"
"Arthus reaction is a local subacute antibody-mediated HSR to antigen in intradermal injection"
"Arthus reaction leads to immune complex formation in the skin; characterized by edema, necrosis, and activation of complement"
"What type of hypersensivitity reaction is the Arthus reaction? Type III HSR"
"Which is more common, serum sickness or arthus reaction? Serum sickness"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is polyarteritis nodosa? Type III"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN)? Type III"
"Which type of hypersensitivity reaction is T-cell mediated? Type IV"
"Type IV HSRs may occur via direct cell cytotoxicity, which involves CD8+ T cells"
"Type IV HSRs may occur via delayed-type hypersensitivity, which involves CD4+ T-cells"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is type I diabetes mellitus? Type IV HSR (direct cell cytotoxicity)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is contact dermatitis (e.g. poison ivy, nickel allergy)? Type IV HSR (CD4 & CD8 Mediated)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is graft-versus-host-disease? Type IV HSR (delayed-type hypersensitivity)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is tuberculin skin test (PPD)? Type IV HSR (Th1 Mediated*)"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is patch test? Type IV HSR (CD4 Mediated)"
"Which type(s) of hypersensitivity reactions are antibody-mediated? I, II, and III"
"What type of graft is from self? Autograft"
"What type of graft is from an identical twin or clone? Syngeneic graft (isograft)"
"What type of graft is from a non-identical individual of the same species? Allograft"
"What type of graft is from a different species? Xenograft"
"Which type of transplant rejection occurs within minutes? Hyperacute"
"Which type of transplant rejection is due to pre-existing recipient antibodies to donor antigen? Hyperacute"
"Which type of transplant rejection presents with widespread thrombosis of graft vessels, causing ischemia/necrosis? Hyperacute"
"Which type of transplant rejection occurs within weeks to months? Acute"
"Which type of transplant rejection occurs within months to years? Chronic"
"Which type of transplant rejection presents with vasculitis of graft vessels with dense interstitial monocytic / lymphocytic infiltrate? Acute"
"Acute transplant rejection can be prevented/reversed with immunosuppressants"
"Which type of transplant rejection presents with vascular smooth muscle proliferation, parenchymal atrophy, and interstitial fibrosis? Chronic"
"Chronic transplant rejection is dominated by arteriosclerosis"
"Chronic lung transplant rejection typically presents as bronchiolitis obliterans"
"Chronic heart transplant rejection typically presents as accelerated atherosclerosis"
"Chronic kidney transplant rejection typically presents as chronic allograft nephropathy"
"Chronic liver transplant rejection typically presents as vanishing bile duct syndrome"
"Which type of transplant rejection presents as grafted immunocompetent T cells proliferating and rejecting host cells with \foreign\\" proteins? Graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD)\""
"Which type of transplant rejection presents with maculopapular rash, jaundice, diarrhea, and hepatosplenomegaly? Graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD)"
"Which transplants are associated with graft-versus-host disease? Bone marrow and liver::2"
"Graft-versus-host disease is potentially beneficial in bone marrow transplants for patients with leukemia"
"What skin appearance is classically seen in carbon monoxide poisoning? Cherry-red appearance"
"Neisseria gonorrhoeae does not have a polysaccharide capsule"
"There is no N. gonorrhoeae vaccine due to antigenic variation of the pilus proteins"
"What kind of discharge is seen with Gonorrhea? Creamy, white, purulent discharge"
"In addition to Ceftriaxone for Gonorrhea, what other possible co-infection should you treat? Chlamydia"
"Which cellular change is characterized by an increased number of cells? Hyperplasia"
"Which cellular change is characterized by an increased size of cells? Hypertrophy"
"Hypertrophy::(hypertrophy or hyperplasia) involves gene activation, protein synthesis, and production of organelles"
"Hyperplasia::(hypertrophy or hyperplasia) involves the controlled proliferation of stem cells and differentiated cells"
"Do permanent tissues (e.g. cardiac muscle, skeletal muscle, nerve) undergo hypertrophy and/or hyperplasia? Hypertrophy, only"
"Which cellular change is characterized by a decrease in tissue mass due to decrease in size or number of cells? Atrophy"
"Atrophy via decrease in cell number occurs via apoptosis"
"Atrophy via decrease in cell size may occur via ubiquitin-proteasome degradation of cytoskeleton"
"Atrophy via decrease in cell size may occur via autophagy of cellular components"
"Which cellular change is characterized by replacement of one cell type by another? Metaplasia"
"Which cellular change typically occurs after chronic exposure to an irritant, such as gastric acid or smoke? Metaplasia"
"Metaplasia occurs via reprogramming of stem cells, which then produce the new cell type"
"Is metaplasia reversible or irreversible? Reversible"
"Under persistent stress, metaplasia can progress to dysplasia and eventually cancer"
"Which metaplasia carries no increased risk for malignancy? Apocrine metaplasia of breast"
"Vitamin A deficiency can result in metaplasia"
"What vitamin is necessary for differentiation of specialized epithelial surfaces? Vitamin A"
"What musculoskeletal disorder is characterized by metaplasia of skeletal muscle to bone? Myositis ossificans"
"Which cellular change is characterized by disordered, non-neoplastic cellular growth? Dysplasia"
"Dysplasia is a term used only with epithelial cells"
"Dysplasia most often refers to proliferation of pre-cancerous cells"
"Is dysplasia reversible or irreversible? Reversible"
"Which cellular change is characterized by failure of cell production during embryogenesis? Aplasia"
"Which cellular change is characterized by decreased cell production during embryogenesis? Hypoplasia"
"Which mitochondrial membrane contains the electron transport chain? Inner mitochondrial membrane"
"What ultimately leads to cellular injury in hypoxia? Lack of ATP"
"Cellular injury is characterized by decreased activity of the Na+-K+ and Ca2+ pumps"
"What is the hallmark of reversible cellular injury? Swelling"
"Reversible cellular injury is characterized ultrastructurally by membrane blebbing and loss of microvilli"
"Reversible cellular injury is characterized ultrastructurally by ribosomal detachment and polysomal detachment, leading to decreased protein synthesis"
"What is the hallmark of irreversible cellular injury? Membrane damage"
"Leakage of cytosolic enzymes into the serum is a characteristic of irreversible cell injury"
"Plasma membrane damage in irreversible cellular injury results in entry of Ca2+ ions into the cell"
"Mitochondrial vacuolization signifies irreversible cellular injury"
"Lysosome membrane damage in irreversible cell injury results in hydrolytic enzymes leaking into the cytosol"
"What is the end result of irreversible cell injury? Cell death"
"The morphologic hallmark of cell death is loss of the nucleus"
"Which feature of cell death is characterized by nuclear condensation? Pyknosis"
"Which feature of cell death is characterized by nuclear fragmentation? Karyorrhexis"
"Which feature of cell death is characterized by nuclear dissolution? Karyolysis"
"The two MAIN mechanisms of cell death are necrosis and apoptosis"
"Which mechanism of cell death is never physiologic*? Necrosis"
"Which mechanism of cell death is an inflammatory process? Necrosis"
"Which mechanism of cell death involves death of a large group of cells? Necrosis"
"Which type of necrosis is characterized by preserved cell shape and organ structure? Coagulative necrosis"
"Coagulative necrosis is characterized by preserved cell architecture (cell outlines are seen) but the nucleus disappears"
"Coagulative necrosis is characteristic of ischemic infarction of any organ except the brain"
"In coagulative necrosis, injury denatures proteolytic enzymes"
"What type of infarct occurs in tissues with a single arterial blood supply (e.g. heart, kidney, spleen)? Pale (anemic) infarct"
"What type of infarct occurs with venous occlusion, tissues with multiple blood supplies (e.g. liver, lungs, intestine, testes), or reperfusion? Red (hemorrhagic) infarct"
"Which type of necrosis is characterized by enzymatic lysis of cells and protein? Liquefactive necrosis"
"In the late phase of liquefactive necrosis of the brain, cystic spaces and cavitation may be seen"
"What type of necrosis is seen with brain infarcts and abscess? Liquefactive necrosis"
"Which cells release proteolytic enzymes in response to brain infarction, causing liquefactive necrosis? Microglial cells"
"Which cells release proteolytic enzymes in response to brain abscess, causing liquefactive necrosis? Neutrophils"
"In addition to the brain, what other organ may undergo liquefactive necrosis? Pancreas"
"Which type of necrosis resembles mummified tissue? Gangrenous (dry)"
"Gangrenous necrosis is characteristic of chronic ischemia of the lower limb and GI tract"
"Gangrenous necrosis is a form of coagulative necrosis"
"What type of necrosis may be seen with gangrenous necrosis if superinfection occurs? Liquefactive necrosis (\wet gangrene\\")\""
"Which type of necrosis is characterized by soft, friable necrotic tissue with a \cottage cheese-like\\" appearance? Caseous necrosis\""
"Caseous necrosis is a combination of coagulative and liquefactive necrosis"
"Which type of necrosis is characteristic of tuberculous and fungal infections? Caseous necrosis"
"Which type of necrosis is characterized by fragmented cells/debris surrounded by lymphocytes and macrophages? Caseous necrosis"
"Which type of necrosis is characterized by a chalky-white appearance due to deposition of Ca2+? Fat necrosis"
"Fat necrosis is characteristically due to acute pancreatitis or trauma (e.g. breast)"
"In fat necrosis, fatty acids bind to Ca2+ via a process called saponification"
"Saponification of fat appears dark blue::color on H&E stain"
"Which type of calcification occurs in abnormal, necrotic tissues? Dystrophic::dystrophic or metastatic"
"Which type of calcification occurs secondary to injury or necrosis? Dystrophic::dystrophic or metastatic"
"Which type of calcification tends to be localized? Dystrophic::dystrophic or metastatic"
"Are patients with dystrophic calcifications usually normocalcemic? Yes"
"Which type of calcification occurs in normal, non-necrotic tissues? Metastatic::dystrophic or metastatic"
"Which type of calcification occurs secondary to hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia? Metastatic::dystrophic or metastatic"
"Which type of calcification tends to be widespread? Metastatic::dystrophic or metastatic"
"Are patients with metastatic calcifications usually normocalcemic? No"
"Metastatic calcification predominantly occurs in the kidney, lung, and gastric mucosa"
"Which type of necrosis is characterized by necrotic damage to blood vessel walls? Fibrinoid necrosis"
"Fibrinoid necrosis is characteristic of malignant hypertension, vasculitis (e.g. PAN), and preeclampsia"
"Fibrinoid necrosis is characterized histologically by thick, bright pink::color staining of vessel walls"
"Which mechanism of cell death is an ATP-dependent programmed cell death? Apoptosis"
"Which mechanism of cell death is NOT followed by inflammation? Apoptosis"
"Which mechanism of cell death involves death of single cells or small groups of cells? Apoptosis"
"Apoptosis is characterized morphologically by cell shrinkage::size, chromatin condensation, and membrane blebbing"
"The cytoplasm of apoptotic cells stains deeply eosino-philic"
"The nucleus of apoptotic cells stains deeply baso-philic"
"Apoptosis results in the formation of apoptotic bodies, which are subsequently phagocytosed by macrophages"
"Apoptosis is mediated by caspases, which activate proteases and endonucleases"
"What class of enzymes breaks down DNA in apoptosis? Endonucleases"
"What class of enzymes breaks down the cytoskeleton in apoptosis? Proteases"
"The mitochondrial (intrinsic) pathway of apoptosis occurs via inactivation of Bcl2"
"Bcl-2 normally keeps the mitochondrial outer membrane impermeable, thus preventing cytochrome c release from the intermembrane space"
"Are the Bcl-2 related proteins BAX and BAK pro- or anti-apoptotic? Pro-apoptotic"
"Are the Bcl-2 related proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-x pro- or anti-apoptotic? Anti-apoptotic"
"The extrinsic (death receptor) pathway of apoptosis can occur via receptor binding between Fas-L-(receptor: CD95) or TNF-α and their respective receptors"
"The extrinsic pathway of apoptosis can occur via a CD-8+ T-cell pathway"
"Defective Fas-FasL interactions can cause autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome"
"DNA laddering in multiples of 180 BP is a sensitive indicator of apoptosis"
"Free radicals are chemical species with an unpaired electron in their outer orbit"
"If O2 accepts one electron, it forms superoxide (O2-)"
"If O2 accepts two electrons, it forms hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)"
"If O2 accepts three electrons, it forms hydroxyl anion (OH-)"
"Pathologic generation of free radicals arises with ionizing radiation, which hydrolyzes H2O to OH-"
"Which oxygen-derived free radical is the most damaging? OH-"
"Pathologic generation of free radicals arises with metals (e.g. copper and iron) via the Fenton reaction"
"Free radicals cause cellular injury via peroxidation of lipids and oxidation of DNA and proteins"
"Free radicals may be eliminated via antioxidants (e.g. reduced glutathione and vitamins A, C, and E)"
"What mitochondrial enzyme reduces superoxide (O2-) to H2O2? Superoxide dismutase"
"What enzymes reduce hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to O2 and H2O? Catalase and glutathione peroxidase"
"Free radicals may be eliminated via metal carrier proteins, such as transferrin (Fe2+) and ceruloplasmin (Cu2+)"
"What organic solvent used in the dry cleaning industry is converted to free radicals in the liver? Carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)"
"CCl3 free radical damage in the liver results in decreased apolipoprotein synthesis with resultant fatty change and centrilobular::location necrosis"
"What cause of free radical injury occurs following thrombolytic therapy? Reperfusion injury"
"Which layer of the heart wall is most vulnerable to hypoxia/ischemia? Subendocardium (LV)"
"Which regions of the kidney are most vulnerable to hypoxia/ischemia? Proximal straight tubule and thick ascending limb"
"Which regions of the colon are most vulnerable to hypoxia/ischemia? Splenic flexure and rectosigmoid junction"
"Amyloid is a misfolded protein that deposits in the extracellular space, resulting in cellular damage and apoptosis"
"What is the shared structural feature of amyloid? β-pleated sheet"
"Amyloid may be visualized using Congo red staining"
"Amyloid may be visualized as apple-green birefringence under polarized light"
"Primary amyloidosis is characterized by systemic deposition of AL amyloid, which is derived from Ig light chain"
"Secondary amyloidosis is characterized by systemic deposition of AA amyloid, which is derived from serum amyloid-associated protein (SAA)"
"Serum amyloid-associated protein (SAA) is an acute phase reactant that is increased in chronic inflammatory states, malignancy, and Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF)"
"Familial Mediterranean Fever is due to dysfunction of neutrophils::cell type"
"Familial Mediterranean fever is characterized by AA amyloid deposits in tissues during attacks"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Familial Mediterranean fever? Autosomal recessive"
"Which types of amyloidosis deposit systemically? Primary (AL) and secondary (AA)"
"What organ is most commonly affected by systemic amyloidosis? Kidney"
"Diagnosis of amyloidosis requires tissue biopsy; the abdominal fat pad and rectum are easily accessible targets"
"Can amyloid be removed from an organ once it has deposited? No"
"Senile cardiac amyloidosis is characterized by deposition of non-mutated transthyretin (TTR) protein"
"Familial amyloid cardiomyopathy / polyneuropathies are characterized by deposition of mutated transthyretin (TTR) protein in the heart and nerves"
"What type of cardiomyopathy is caused by mutated transthyretin deposits (familial amyloid cardiomyopathy)? Restrictive cardiomyopathy"
"Type II diabetes mellitus is associated with deposition of amylin (islet amyloid polypeptide) in the islets of the pancreas"
"Alzheimer disease is characterized by deposition of Aβ-amyloid in the brain, which forms amyloid plaques"
"Dialysis-associated amyloidosis is characterized by deposition of β2-microglobulin in joints"
"Which amyloidosis may present as carpal tunnel syndrome? Any amyloidosis*"
"Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid is characterized by deposition of calcitonin within the tumor"
"Isolated atrial amyloidosis due to atrial natriuretic peptide is common in normal aging and predisposes to atrial fibrillation"
"Acute inflammation is characterized by the presence of edema and neutrophils::cell type in tissue"
"Acute inflammation arises in response to infection, tissue necrosis, trauma and foreign bodies"
"Toll-like receptors (TLRs) on cells of the immune system are activated by pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) that are commonly shared by microbes"
"Are toll-like receptors (TLRs) found on cells of the innate or adaptive immune system? Both :)"
"CD-14 is a co-receptor for TLR4 found on macrophages that recognizes lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on gram-negative bacteria"
"Toll-like receptor (TLR) activation results in upregulation of NF-κB, a nuclear transcription factor that activates immune response genes"
"Arachidonic acid is released from the phospholipid cell membrane by the enzyme phospholipase A2"
"Arachidonic acids are converted to prostaglandins via the enzyme cyclooxygenase"
"Which prostaglandins mediate vasodilation and increased vascular permeability? PGE2, PGD2, and PGI2 (prostacyclin)"
"Which prostaglandin mediates pain and fever? PGE2"
"Prostaglandin I2 (prostacyclin) causes decreased platelet aggregation"
"Arachidonic acids are converted to leukotrienes via the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase"
"Which leukotriene attracts and activates neutrophils? Leukotriene B4"
"Which leukotrienes mediate vasoconstriction, bronchospasm, and increased vascular permeability? Leukotrienes C4, D4, and E4"
"In general, prostaglandins cause vaso-dilation"
"In general, prostaglandins cause increased vascular permeability"
"In general, leukotrienes cause vaso-constriction"
"In general, leukotrienes cause increased vascular permeability"
"Mast cells may be activated by tissue trauma"
"Mast cells may be activated by cross-linking of cell-surface IgE by antigen"
"Which complement proteins can activate mast cells (anaphylatoxins)? C3a, C4a, and C5a"
"What organ synthesizes complement proteins? Liver"
"Complement may be activated via the classic pathway, which is mediated by IgM and IgG"
"What complement protein does the classical pathway of activation begin with? C1"
"Complement may be activated via the alternative pathway, which occurs spontaneously or when microbial products activate complement"
"What complement protein does the alternative pathway of activation begin with? C3"
"Complement may be activated via the lectin pathway, which is mediated by mannose on microbial surfaces"
"What complement protein does the lectin pathway of activation begin with? C1-like complex"
"All pathways of complement activation result in the production of C3 convertase, which converts C3 to C3a and C3b"
"Which form of C3 convertase is produced via the lectin and classic complement pathways? C4b2b"
"Which form of C3 convertase is produced via the alternative complement pathway? C3bBb"
"All pathways of complement activation result in the production of C5 convertase, which converts C5 to C5a and C5b"
"Which form of C5 convertase is produced via the lectin and classic complement pathways? C4b2b3b"
"Which form of C5 convertase is produced via the alternative complement pathway? C3bBb3b"
"C5b complexes with C6-C9 to form the membrane attack complex (MAC)"
"Which complement proteins are part of the membrane attack complex (MAC)? C5b-C9"
"Which complement protein is a neutrophil chemotactic? C5a"
"Which complement protein is an opsonin for phagocytosis? C3b *bonus: what on the macrophage binds to this?"
"C3b and IgG are the two primary opsonins in bacterial defense, which enhances phagocytosis"
"Which complement protein helps clear immune complexes? C3b"
"Which coagulation factor is a mediator of acute inflammation? Factor XII (Hageman factor)"
"Kallikrein cleaves high-molecular-weight kininogen (HMWK) to bradykinin"
"Bradykinin causes vaso-dilation and increased vascular permeability"
"In addition to vascular effects, bradykinin also mediates pain"
"One cardinal sign of inflammation is rubor, or redness"
"One cardinal sign of inflammation is calor, or warmth"
"The key mediators of redness and warmth in inflammation are histamine, prostaglandins, bradykinin and NO"
"One cardinal sign of inflammation is tumor, or swelling"
"Swelling in inflammation is mediated by endothelial cell disruption (due to tissue damage) and endothelial cell contraction (caused by leukotrienes, histamine, and serotonin)"
"One cardinal sign of inflammation is dolor, or pain"
"The key mediators of pain in inflammation are bradykinin and PGE2, which sensitize nerve endings"
"Fever in inflammation is mediated by release of IL-1, TNF and IL-6 by macrophages in response to pyrogens (e.g. LPS from bacteria)"
"Fever in inflammation is mediated by PGE2, which raises the temperature setpoint"
"Where does leukocyte extravasation predominantly occur? Postcapillary venules"
"What is the first step of leukocyte extravasation? Margination"
"During leukocyte margination, leukocytes marginate from the center::center or periphery of flow to the periphery::center or periphery"
"What step of leukocyte extravasation occurs directly after margination? Rolling"
"During leukocyte rolling, selectin \speed bumps\\" are upregulated on endothelial cells\""
"P-selectin is released from Weibel-Palade bodies"
"Release of P-selectin from Weibel-Palade bodies is mediated by histamine"
"E-selectin expression is induced by IL-1 and TNF"
"Selectins on endothelial cells bind Sialyl-LewisX on leukocytes, resulting in rolling of leukocytes along the vessel wall"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 2 is due to a defect in Sialyl-Lewisx"
"What step of leukocyte extravasation occurs directly after rolling? Adhesion"
"ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 are cellular adhesion molecules that are upregulated on endothelium during leukocyte adhesion"
"ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression are induced by TNF and IL-1"
"Cellular adhesion molecules (CAMs) on endothelial cells bind integrins on leukocytes, resulting in firm adhesion to the vessel wall"
"Integrin expression is upregulated on leukocytes by C5a and LTB4"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency (type 1)::specific type is due to a defect in LFA-1 integrin (CD18)::specific protein on phagocytes"
"What is the mode of inheritance of leukocyte adhesion deficiency? Autosomal recessive"
"Which immunodeficiency presents with delayed separation of the umbilical cord (>30 days)? Leukocyte adhesion deficiency"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency is characterized by increased circulating neutrophils"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency is characterized by absent neutrophils at infection sites"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency is characterized by recurrent bacterial infections (skin and mucosal) with absent pus formation"
"What two steps of leukocyte extravasation occurs directly after adhesion? Transmigration and chemotaxis"
"Neutrophil chemotactants include IL-8, C5a, LTB4, and bacterial products"
"Following leukocyte extravasation, pathogens or necrotic tissue are consumed by phagocytosis"
"During phagocytosis, pseudopods extend from leukocytes to form phagosomes, which are internalized and merged with lysosomes"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by impaired phagolysosome formation? Chédiak-Higashi syndrome"
"Chédiak-Higashi syndrome is caused by a defect in the lysosomal trafficking regulator (LYST) gene, resulting in impaired phagolysosome formation"
"What cytoskeletal component is impaired in Chédiak-Higashi syndrome? Microtubules"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Chédiak-Higashi syndrome? Autosomal recessive"
"Which immunodeficiency is associated with albinism? Chédiak-Higashi syndrome"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by giant granules in leukocytes and platelets? Chédiak-Higashi syndrome"
"Chédiak-Higashi syndrome is associated with defective primary hemostasis"
"Patients with Chédiak-Higashi syndrome have increased risk for pyogenic infections (e.g. staphylococci and streptococci)"
"Chédiak-Higashi syndrome is characterized by decreased circulating neutrophils"
"Which immunodeficiency is associated with peripheral neuropathy and progressive neurodegeneration? Chédiak-Higashi syndrome"
"Destruction of phagocytosed material occurs through respiratory (oxidative) burst, which utilizes O2 as a substrate"
"What is the end product of oxidative burst that destroys phagocytosed microbes? Hypochlorite (HClO)"
"O2 is converted to superoxide (O2-) by the enzyme NADPH oxidase (oxidative burst)"
"O2- is converted to H2O2 by the enzyme superoxide dismutase (oxidative burst)"
"H2O2 is converted to HClO (hypochlorite) by the enzyme myeloperoxidase (oxidative burst)"
"Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is due to a defect in NADPH oxidase"
"What is the most common mode of inheritance of chronic granulomatous disease? X-linked recessive"
"Chronic granulomatous disease is characterized by recurrent infection and granuloma formation with catalase-positive organisms"
"How do phagocytes in CGD patients kill catalase-negative organisms? Use H2O2 produced by invading organisms to produce HClO-"
"Which immunodeficiency may be diagnosed with the dihydrorhodamine flow cytometry test or nitrotetrazolium blue test? Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD)"
"Which immunodeficiency may be diagnosed with the nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) test? Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD)"
"What color is the nitroblue tetrazolium test in a patient with CGD? Colorless/yellow (negative test)"
"What color is the nitroblue tetrazolium test in a patient without CGD? Blue (positive test)"
"What enzyme is a blue-green heme pigment that gives sputum its color? Myeloperoxidase"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by inability to generate HClO (hypochlorite) from H2O2? Myeloperoxidase deficiency"
"Myeloperoxidase deficiency is associated with increased risk for Candida infection, however, most patients are asymptomatic"
"O2-independent killing in phagocytes is less effective than O2-dependent killing"
"Pseudomonas aeruginosa produces pyocyanin, which generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) to kill competing microbes"
"Lactoferrin is a protein found in secretory fluids and neutrophils that inhibits microbial growth via iron chelation"
"How do neutrophil levels decrease following acute inflammation? Neutrophils undergo apoptosis"
"What immune cell predominates after neutrophils (2 - 3 days after inflammation begins)? Macrophages"
"What enzyme in macrophages is primarily used to destroy phagocytosed material? Lysozyme"
"What cytokine is produced by macrophages to recruit neutrophils for persistent acute inflammation? IL-8"
"Acute inflammation may result in abscess formation, which is acute inflammation surrounded by fibrosis"
"Chronic inflammation is characterized by the presence of macrophages, lymphocytes and plasma cells in tissue"
"What is the most common cause of chronic inflammation? Persistent infection"
"Granulomas are collections of epithelioid histiocytes::specific, usually surrounded by giant cells and a rim of lymphocytes"
"Epithelioid histiocytes are macrophages with abundant pink cytoplasm"
"Which type of granuloma lacks central necrosis? Non-caseating granulomas"
"Which type of granuloma is characteristic of autoimmune disease (e.g. Crohn disease, sarcoidosis)? Non-caseating granulomas"
"Which type of granuloma is seen with reaction to foreign material (e.g. berylliosis, retained sutures)? Non-caseating granulomas"
"Which type of granuloma exhibits central necrosis? Caseating granulomas"
"Which type of granuloma is characteristic of tuberculosis and fungal infections? Caseating granulomas"
"Granuloma formation: Macrophages present antigen via MHC II to CD4+ helper T cells"
"Granuloma formation: Interaction between macrophages and Th cells causes macrophages to secrete IL-12, which induces Th1 differentiation"
"Granuloma formation: Th1 cells secrete IFN-γ, which converts macrophages to epithelioid histiocytes and giant cells"
"Granulomatous diseases are associated with hypercalcemia, due to increased 1α-hydroxylase in epithelioid histiocytes"
"What cellular adhesion molecule aids in transmigration during leukocyte extravasation? PECAM-1 (CD31)::... (CD#)"
"DiGeorge syndrome is a developmental failure to develop the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal pouches"
"What chromosomal deletion is associated with DiGeorge syndrome? 22q11 microdeletion"
"The features of a general chromosome 22q11 microdeletion may be remembered with the mnemonic \CATCH 22\\": C: Cleft palate A: Abnormal facies T: Thymic aplasia C: Conotruncal abnormalities (truncus arteriosus"
"DiGeorge syndrome may present with tetany, secondary to hypocalcemia"
"DiGeorge syndrome is characterized by decreased number of T cells"
"DiGeorge syndrome is characterized by decreased serum parathyroid hormone"
"DiGeorge syndrome is characterized by decreased Ca2+"
"DiGeorge syndrome is characterized by an absent thymic shadow on CXR"
"What enzyme deficiency is associated with SCID? (would give you a hint, but this is the only enzyme deficiency assoc /w SCID) Adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency"
"Adenosine deaminase deficiency results in buildup of adenosine, which is toxic to lymphocytes; causes SCID"
"What is the mode of inheritance of SCID secondary to ADA deficiency? Autosomal recessive"
"SCID may be caused by a defective IL-2 receptor (most common)"
"What is the mode of inheritance of SCID secondary to a defective IL-2R? X-linked"
"SCID may be caused by MHC class II deficiency"
"Which immunodeficiency presents with recurrent infection, failure to thrive, chronic diarrhea, and thrush? Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)"
"What treatment for SCID is curative? Bone marrow transplant"
"What type of vaccine should be avoided in patients with SCID? Live vaccines"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by decreased T-cell receptor excision circles (TRECs)? Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)"
"SCID is characterized by an absent thymic shadow on CXR"
"SCID is characterized by absent germinal centers on lymph node biopsy"
"SCID is characterized by absent T cells on flow cytometry"
"X-linked (Bruton) agammaglobulinemia is caused by a defect in the BTK gene"
"What type of gene is the BTK gene? Tyrosine kinase"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Bruton agammaglobulinemia? X-linked recessive"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by absent B cells in peripheral blood? X-linked (Bruton) agammaglobulinemia"
"What classes of immunoglobulin are decreased in Bruton agammaglobulinemia? All classes"
"Which immunodeficiencies are characterized by absent/scanty lymph nodes and tonsils? X-linked (Bruton) agammaglobulinemia and severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)"
"What type of vaccine should be avoided in patients with X-linked agammaglobulinemia? Live vaccines"
"When does X-linked agammaglobulinemia typically present? 6 months after birth"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by no B-cell maturation? X-linked (Bruton) agammaglobulinemia"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by no B-cell differentiation into plasma cells? Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID)"
"When does common variable immunodeficiency typically present? After age 2"
"CVID is associated with low immunoglobulin levels due to decreased plasma cells"
"Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is associated with increased risk for autoimmune disease and lymphoma"
"What is the most common primary immunodeficiency? Selective IgA deficiency"
"IgA deficiency is characterized by normal levels of IgG and IgM"
"Patients with IgA deficiency may develop anaphylaxis to IgA-containing products (e.g. blood transfusions, gammaglobulins)"
"IgA deficiency may present with increased infections in mucosal sites"
"What parasitic infection are patients with IgA deficiency susceptible to? Giardia"
"Hyper-IgM syndrome is most commonly due to mutated CD40L on Th cells"
"Which immunodeficiency presents with defective class switching? Hyper-IgM syndrome"
"What classes of immunoglobulin are decreased in hyper-IgM syndrome? IgA, IgG, and IgE"
"What is the mode of inheritance of hyper-IgM syndrome? X-linked recessive"
"Hyper-IgM syndrome results in recurrent pyogenic infections, especially at mucosal sites"
"Hyper-IgM syndrome is characterized by absent germinal centers on lymph node biopsy"
"Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is due to a mutation in the WASp gene"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome? X-linked recessive"
"Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is characterized by inability for leukocytes and platelets to reorganize their actin cytoskeleton"
"What classes of immunoglobulin are normal or decreased in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome? IgG and IgM"
"What classes of immunoglobulin are increased in Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome? IgA and IgE"
"The symptoms of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \WATER\\": W: Wiskott A: Aldrich T: Thrombocytopenia (fewer and smaller platelets) E: Eczema R: Recurrent (pyogenic) infections\""
"What is the major cause of death in patients with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome? Bleeding"
"Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome is associated with increased risk for autoimmune disease and malignancy"
"Ataxia-Telangiectasia is due to defects in the ATM gene"
"Which immunodeficiency is caused by failure to repair DNA double strand breaks? Ataxia-telangiectasia"
"Ataxia-TelangiectasiA presents with a triad of: - cerebellar defects (Ataxia) but no cognitive defects - spider angiomas (Telangiectasia) - IgA deficiency"
"Which immunodeficiency is associated with increased serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)? Ataxia-telangiectasia"
"What classes of immunoglobulin are decreased in ataxia-telangiectasia? IgA, IgG, and IgE"
"Ataxia-telangiectasia is associated with increased risk of lymphoma and leukemia"
"IL-12 receptor deficiency is characterized by a decreased Th1 response"
"What is the mode of inheritance of IL-12 receptor deficiency? Autosomal recessive"
"IL-12 deficiency presents with decreased levels of IFN-γ::signal"
"Which immunodeficiency may present after administration of the BCG vaccine? IL-12 receptor deficiency"
"Job (hyper-IgE) syndrome is due to a mutation in the STAT3 gene"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Job syndrome? Autosomal dominant"
"What class of helper T cell is deficient in Job syndrome? Th17"
"What class of immunoglobulin is increased in Job syndrome? IgE"
"The symptoms of Job syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \FATED\\": F: coarse Facies A: cold (noninflamed) staphylococcal Abscesses T: retained primary Teeth E: increased IgE D: dermatologic problems (eczema)\""
"Which immunodeficiency presents with bone fractures from minor trauma? Job (hyper-IgE) syndrome"
"Job (hyper-IgE) syndrome is characterized by decreased IFN-γ"
"Job (hyper-IgE) syndrome is characterized by increased eosinophils"
"Which immunodeficiency is associated with an absent cutaneous reaction to Candida antigens due to T-cell dysfunction? Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis"
"Which immunodeficiency is associated with an absent in vitro T-cell proliferation in response to Candida antigens due to T-cell dysfunction? Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis"
"Immunodeficiencies with decreased B cells are susceptible to infection by encapsulated bacteria"
"What parasitic infection is more common in patients with decreased B-cells? GI giardiasis (no IgA)"
"Immunodeficiencies with decreased B-cells tend to produce recurrent bacterial, enterovirus, and Giardia infections"
"Immunodeficiences with decreased T-cells tend to produce recurrent viral and fungal infections"
"C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency results in hereditary angioedema"
"Which complement proteins are decreased in C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency? C4 and C2"
"What class of drugs are contraindicated in C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency? ACE inhibitors"
"Terminal Complement (C5-C9) Deficiencies increase susceptibility to recurrent Neisseria bacteremia"
"Which complement deficiencies result in increased risk for Neisseria infection? Terminal Complement (C5-C9) Deficiencies"
"Early Complement Deficiencies (C1-C4) are characterized by increased risk of severe, recurrent pyogenic sinopulmonary::location infections"
"Which complement deficiency results in increased risk for Systemic lupus erythematosus / Glomerulonephritis? Early Complement Deficiencies (C1-C4)"
"Defects in CD-25 on regulatory T cells are associated with multiple sclerosis and type I diabetes mellitus"
"IPEX syndrome is due to a genetic deficiency of FOXP3"
"What is the mode of inheritance of IPEX syndrome? X-linked"
"IPEX syndrome is associated with diabetes in male::gender infants"
"What gender is more commonly affected by autoimmune disease? Females"
"Autoimmune disorders are associated with polymorphisms in the PTPN22 gene"
"What demographic is associated with systemic lupus erytematous (SLE)? Middle-aged females::age, gender"
"What ethnicities are more commonly affected by SLE? African Americans and Hispanics"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is SLE? Type III* HSR (immune complex deposition)"
"Deficiency of early complement proteins are associated with SLE"
"The characteristics of SLE may be remembered with the mnemonic \RASH OR PAIN\\": R: Rash (malar or discoid)::skin A: Arthritis (usually involving > 2 joints) S: Serositis (pleuritis and pericarditis) H: Hematologic disorders (e.g. cytopenias) O: Oral or nasopharyngeal ulcers (usually painless) R: Renal disease P: Photosensitivity A: Antinuclear antibodies I: Immunologic disorder (anti-dsDNA"
"SLE is associated with malar (\butterfly\\") and discoid rashes"
"What is the most common (and severe) form of renal disease in SLE patients? Diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis (DPGN)"
"What type of endocarditis is associated with SLE? Libman-Sacks endocarditis"
"Which antibody is sensitive, but not specific for SLE? Antinuclear antibodies (ANA)"
"Which antibodies are specific, but not sensitive for SLE? anti-dsDNA and anti-Smith antibodies::2"
"Which SLE antibody is a useful predictor of disease activity and renal involvement? Anti-dsDNA antibodies"
"SLE is characterized by decreased levels of C3 and C4"
"SLE is characterized by decreased levels of CH50"
"SLE may be associated with antiphospholipid antibodies (e.g. anticardiolipin, lupus anticoagulant)"
"What antibodies are antiphospholipid antibodies? Anti-cardiolipin, lupus anticoagulant, and anti-β2 glycoprotein"
"Anti-cardiolipin is an antiphospholipid antibody that may result in false-positive VDRL and RPR tests"
"Lupus anticoagulant is an antiphospholipid antibody that results in a falsely elevated PTT"
"Is the elevated PTT due to lupus anticoagulant correctable by addition of normal plasma? No"
"Antiphospholipid syndrome can occur as a primary disorder, or as a secondary disorder (e.g. with SLE)"
"Anti-phospholipid syndrome is characterized by a(n) hyper-coagulable state"
"Antiphospholipid syndrome is diagnosed based on clinical criteria including history of thrombosis or spontaneous abortion along with antiphospholipid antibodies"
"What is the treatment for antiphospholipid syndrome? Anticoagulants"
"Which antibody is sensitive for drug-induced lupus? Anti-histone antibodies"
"First-line treatment for SLE includes glucocorticoids for flare ups"
"Common causes of death in SLE patients include renal failure, infection, and cardiovascular disease"
"Sjögren's syndrome is an autoimmune destruction of lacrimal and salivary glands"
"What demographic is associated with Sjögren's syndrome? Older woman (40-60 years old)::age, gender"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is Sjögren's syndrome? Type IV (lymphocyte-mediated damage)"
"Sjögren's syndrome classically presents with dry eyes, known as keratoconjunctivitis sicca"
"Sjögren's syndrome classically presents with dry mouth, known as xerostomia"
"Sjögren's syndrome may present with recurrent dental caries::oral complication"
"Sjögren's syndrome is characterized by bilateral enlargement of the parotid glands"
"Sjögren's syndrome can be primary (sicca syndrome) or associated with another autoimmune disorder, especially rheumatoid arthritis"
"What non-specific antibodies may be associated with Sjögren's syndrome? Antinuclear antibodies (ANA) and rheumatoid factor::2"
"What anti-ribonucleoprotein antibodies are associated with Sjögren's syndrome? Anti-SSA (Ro) and SSB (La) antibodies::full name (short name)"
"The anti-SSA and anti-SSB antibodies in Sjögren's syndrome are against ribonucleoproteins"
"Pregnant women with anti-SSA antibodies are at risk for delivering babies with neonatal lupus and congenital heart block"
"Diagnosis of Sjögren's syndrome is confirmed by presence of focal lymphocytic sialadenitis on labial salivary gland biopsy"
"Sjögren's syndrome is associated with increased risk for MALT lymphoma, which presents as unilateral enlargement of the parotid gland late in the disease course"
"Which autoimmune disease is characterized by sclerosis of skin and visceral organs? Scleroderma (systemic sclerosis)"
"What demographic is associated with scleroderma? Middle-aged females (30-50 years)::age, gender"
"Which autoimmune disease classically presents with puffy, taut skin without wrinkles? Scleroderma"
"Scleroderma may present with fingertip pitting"
"Scleroderma is characterized by fibroblast activation with resultant collagen deposition"
"Limited scleroderma is characterized by limited skin involvement confined to fingers and face"
"Limited scleroderma is also referred to as \CREST syndrome\\": C: Calcinosis cutis (and anti-Centromere Abs) R: Raynaud phenomenon E: Esophageal dysmotility S: Sclerodactyly (thick"
"Which type of scleroderma is associated with the anti-centromere antibody? Limited scleroderma (CREST syndrome)"
"Diffuse scleroderma is characterized by widespread skin involvement with early visceral involvement"
"Diffuse scleroderma is associated with anti-Scl-70 (DNA topoisomerase I) and anti-RNA Polymerase III antibodies"
"What enzyme is targeted by anti-Scl-70 antibodies? DNA topoisomerase I"
"Which type of scleroderma is associated with the anti-Scl-70 antibody? Diffuse scleroderma"
"Sclerosis of what organ is the most common cause of death in scleroderma? Lungs"
"Mixed connective tissue disease has features of SLE, scleroderma, and/or polymyositis"
"Mixed connective tissue disease is characterized by speckled ANA and anti-U1 RNP antibodies"
"Regeneration is the replacement of damaged tissue with native tissue"
"What type of tissue is comprised of stem cells that can continuously cycle to regenerate tissue? Labile"
"What type of tissue is comprised of cells that can re-enter the cell cycle to regenerate tissue when necessary? Stable (quiescent)"
"What type of tissue lacks significant regenerative potential? Permanent"
"Repair is the replacement of damaged tissue with fibrous scar"
"The initial \proliferative\\" phase of wound repair is characterized by deposition of granulation tissue\""
"Granulation tissue consists of type III collagen, capillaries, and myofibroblasts"
"What component of granulation tissue deposits type III collagen? Fibroblasts"
"What component of granulation tissue provides nutrients? Capillaries"
"What component of granulation tissue mediates wound contraction? Myofibroblasts"
"Wound repair eventually results in scar formation, in which type III collagen is replaced with type I collagen (\remodeling\\")\""
"Collagenase is a metalloproteinase enzyme that removes type III collagen"
"Collagenase requires zinc as a cofactor"
"TGF-β is a growth factor that mediates fibrosis and angiogenesis, it inhibits inflammation"
"PDGF is a growth factor that is secreted by activated platelets and macrophages"
"PDGF induces vascular remodeling and smooth muscle cell migration"
"PDGF stimulates fibroblast growth for collagen synthesis"
"What is the primary role of fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2)? Angiogenesis"
"What is the primary role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)? Angiogenesis / Vasculogenesis"
"Epidermal growth factor stimulates cell growth via tyrosine kinases"
"Cutaneous healing by primary intention is when the wound edges are brought together (e.g. suturing a surgical incision)"
"Cutaneous healing by primary intention leads to minimal scar formation"
"Cutaneous healing by secondary intention is when the wound edges are not approximated"
"Cutaneous healing by secondary intention results in scar formation"
"Delayed wound healing may occur with infection, most commonly due to S. aureus"
"What vitamin deficiency is associated with delayed wound healing? Vitamin C"
"What mineral deficiencies are associated with delayed wound healing? Zinc and copper::2"
"Dehiscence refers to rupture of a wound; most commonly seen after abdominal surgery"
"Scar formation results in 70 - 80% of tensile strength regained by 3 months"
"What type of scar is confined to the borders of the original wound? Hypertrophic scar"
"What type of scar is characterized by parallel collagen organization? Hypertrophic scar"
"Do hypertrophic scars have a genetic predisposition? No"
"Do hypertrophic scars typically recur? No"
"What type of scar extends beyond the borders of the original wound? Keloid scar"
"What type of scar is characterized by disorganized collagen organization? Keloid scar"
"Keloid scars are characterized by very increased type I and III collagen synthesis"
"Do keloid scars have a genetic predisposition? If so, who? Yes (more common in African Americans and Asians)"
"Do keloid scars typically recur? Yes"
"Keloid scars typically affect the earlobes, face, and upper extremities"
"Exudate is characterized by increased LDH compared to serum"
"Exudate is characterized by high levels of protein"
"Transudate is characterized by decreased LDH compared to serum"
"Transudate is characterized by low levels of protein"
"What HLA subtype is associated with hemochromatosis? A3"
"What HLA subtypes are associated with Addison disease? B8, DR3, and DR4"
"What HLA subtypes are associated with Graves disease? B8 and DR3"
"What HLA subtype is associated with seronegative arthropathies? B27"
"What HLA subtypes are associated with celiac disease? DQ2 and DQ8"
"What HLA subtype is associated with multiple sclerosis? DR2"
"What HLA subtype is associated with hay fever? DR2"
"What HLA subtypes are associated with SLE? DR2 and DR3"
"What HLA subtype is associated with Goodpasture syndrome? DR2"
"What HLA subtypes are associated with type I diabetes mellitus? DR3 and DR4"
"What HLA subtype is associated with Rheumatoid arthritis? DR4"
"What HLA subtypes are associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis? DR3 and DR5"
"What HLA subtype is associated with pernicious anemia? DR5"
"Anti-islet cell cytoplasmic autoantibodies are associated with type I diabetes mellitus"
"Anti-synthetase (anti-Jo-1) autoantibodies are associated with polymyositis and dermatomyositis"
"Anti-helicase (anti-Mi-2) autoantibodies are associated with polymyositis and dermatomyositis"
"Anti-SRP antibodies are associated with polymyositis and dermatomyositis"
"What is another name for the p-ANCA antibody? Myeloperoxidase (MPO)-ANCA"
"What is another name for the c-ANCA antibody? Proteinase 3 (PR3)-ANCA"
"Anti-smooth muscle autoantibodies are associated with autoimmune hepatitis type 1"
"Achondroplasia is the most common cause of dwarfism"
"Achondroplasia is due to a(n) activating mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene"
"What is the mode of inheritance of achondroplasia? Autosomal dominant"
"What is the penetrance of achondroplasia? 100%"
"Is achondroplasia typically seen in patients with homozygous or heterozygous mutations? Heterozygous (homozygous is lethal)"
"Over 85% of mutations in the FGFR3 gene occur sporadically and are related to increased paternal age"
"Constitutive activation of FGFR3 inhibits::inhibit/activates chondrocyte proliferation"
"Achondroplasia is characterized by short (rhizomelic) extremities with a relatively large head"
"What type of bone formation is impaired in achondroplasia? Endochondral ossification"
"Achondroplasia is characterized by failure of longitudinal::not endochondral bone growth"
"What MSK pathology is associated with a space between the 3rd and 4th fingers (\trident hands\\")? Achondroplasia\""
"Does achondroplasia affect mental function, life span, and/or fertility? No"
"Osteopetrosis is caused by an inherited defect in bone resorption"
"Osteopetrosis is due to poor osteo-clast function, impairing the ability to remodel bone"
"What MSK pathology is characterized by thick, heavy bone that fractures easily due to failure of bone resorption? Osteopetrosis"
"Osteopetrosis is characterized by diffuse, symmetric skeletal sclerosis on X-ray"
"Osteopetrosis may occur due to mutations in carbonic anhydrase II, which leads to loss of the acidic environment necessary for bone resorption"
"Osteopetrosis is associated with pancytopenia and extramedullary hematopoiesis due to bony replacement of the marrow (myelophthisic process)"
"Osteopetrosis may present with vision and hearing impairment due to cranial nerve impingement"
"Osteopetrosis may present with hydrocephalus due to narrowing of the foramen magnum"
"What is the treatment for osteopetrosis? Bone marrow transplant (osteoclasts are derived from monocytes)"
"Osteomalacia (Rickets) is due to defective mineralization of osteoid"
"What is the most common cause of osteomalacia/rickets? Vitamin D deficiency"
"What MSK pathology is caused by low vitamin D in children? Rickets"
"Rickets may present pectus carinatum (Pigeon-breast deformity)"
"Rickets may present with rachitic rosary due to osteoid deposition at the costochondral junction"
"Rickets may present with frontal bossing and craniotabes (soft skull)"
"Rickets may present with pathologic bow legs (genu varum)"
"What MSK pathology is associated with metaphyseal cupping/fraying? Rickets"
"What MSK pathology is caused by low vitamin D in adults? Osteomalacia"
"What MSK pathology is associated with \Looser zones\\" (pseudofractures) on X-ray? Osteomalacia\""
"Osteomalacia/rickets is characterized by decreased serum Ca2+"
"Osteomalacia/rickets is characterized by decreased serum PO43-"
"Osteomalacia/rickets is characterized by increased serum PTH"
"Osteomalacia/rickets is characterized by increased serum alkaline phosphatase"
"What MSK pathology is characterized by a reduction in trabecular and cortical bone mass and interconnections? Osteoporosis"
"Peak bone mass is achieved by 30 years of age"
"After age 30, slightly less than 1% of bone mass is lost each year"
"Osteoporosis is most commonly due to decreased estrogen levels or increased age"
"Osteoporosis may be secondary to hyper-thyroidism"
"Osteoporosis may be secondary to hyper-parathyroidism"
"Osteoporosis is diagnosed by DXA scan with a T-score of < - 2.5 or a fragility fracture of the hip or vertebrae"
"Prophylaxis for osteoporosis includes regular weight-bearing exercise and adequate Ca2+ / vitamin D intake throughout adulthood"
"What ethnicity is associated with decreased risk for osteoporosis? African Americans"
"Osteoporosis can lead to vertebral compression fractures, which result in loss of height and kyphosis"
"Osteoporosis may present with fracture of the femoral neck or distal radius (Colles fracture)"
"What is test used to measure bone density? DEXA scan"
"Osteoporosis is characterized by normal serum Ca2+"
"Osteoporosis is characterized by normal serum PO43-"
"Osteoporosis is characterized by normal serum PTH"
"Osteoporosis is characterized by normal serum alkaline phosphatase"
"What MSK pathology is characterized by thick, heavy bone that fractures easily due to imbalance of osteoblast and osteoclast function? Paget disease of bone (osteitis deformans)"
"Is Paget disease of bone a localized or diffuse process? Localized"
"What demographic is associated with Paget disease of bone? Late adulthood (age > 60)::age group"
"What is the first stage of Paget disease of bone (osteitis deformans)? Osteoclastic (lytic)"
"What is the second stage of Paget disease of bone (osteitis deformans)? Mixed osteoblastic-osteoclastic"
"What is the third stage of Paget disease of bone (osteitis deformans)? Osteoblastic (sclerotic)"
"What is the fourth stage of Paget disease of bone (osteitis deformans)? Quiescent (minimal osteoclast/osteoblast activity)"
"What MSK pathology is characterized histologically by a mosaic pattern of woven and lamellar bone? Paget disease of bone"
"Paget disease of bone may present with bone pain due to microfractures or long bone \chalk stick\\" fractures\""
"What MSK pathology is associated with an increasing hat size due to skull thickening? Paget disease of bone"
"Paget disease of bone often presents with hearing loss due to CN impingement from foramen narrowing"
"Paget disease of bone may present with \lion-like facies\\" due to involvement of craniofacial bones\""
"Paget disease of bone is the most common cause of isolated elevated alkaline phosphatase in patients > 40 years old"
"Paget disease of bone is characterized by normal serum Ca2+"
"Paget disease of bone is characterized by normal serum PO43-"
"Paget disease of bone is characterized by normal serum PTH"
"Paget disease of bone is characterized by elevated serum alkaline phosphatase"
"Treatment for Paget disease of bone includes calcitonin and bisphosphonates"
"One complication of Paget disease of bone is high-output heart failure due to formation of AV shunts in bone"
"What malignancy is associated with Paget disease of bone (osteitis deformans)? Osteosarcoma"
"Osteomyelitis is an infection of marrow and bone, usually in children"
"What type of microorganism typically causes osteomyelitis? Bacteria"
"Osteomyelitis in children arises with transient bacteremia that seeds the metaphysis"
"Osteomyelitis in adults arises with open-wound bacteremia that seeds the epiphysis"
"What is the most common overall cause of osteomyelitis (90%)? Staphylococcus aureus"
"What cause of osteomyelitis is more common in sexually active young adults? Neisseria gonorrhoeae (rare; septic arthritis more common)"
"What are the top two causes of osteomyelitis in sickle cell disease patients? Salmonella (#1) and S. aureus"
"What cause of osteomyelitis is more common in IV drug users and diabetics? Pseudomonas"
"What cause of osteomyelitis is more common in dog and cat bites? Pasteurella multocida"
"What cause of osteomyelitis is more common in vertebrae? Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Pott disease)"
"What cause of osteomyelitis is more common in prosthetic joint replacement? Staphylococcus epidermidis"
"What mode of imaging is the best for detecting acute osteomyelitis? MRI"
"In addition to MRI, diagnosis of osteomyelitis may be made with blood culture"
"What MSK pathology presents with bone pain and systemic signs of infection (e.g. fever, leukocytosis)? Osteomyelitis"
"Osteomyelitis may be seen on X-ray as a(n) lytic focus (sequestrum) surrounded by sclerosis (involucrum)"
"Osteonecrosis (avascular necrosis) is caused by infarction of bone and marrow"
"What is the most common site for osteonecrosis (avascular necrosis)? Femoral head"
"The causes of osteonecrosis may be remembered with the mnemonic \CAST Bent LEGS\\": C: Corticosteroids A: Alcoholism S: Sickle cell disease::heme T: Trauma (most common) Bent: \\"Bends\\" (Caisson disease) Le: Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease G: Gaucher disease S: Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE)\""
"Complications of osteomyelitis include osteo-arthritis and fractures"
"Teriparatide is a recombinant form of PTH used to treat osteoporosis"
"Osteoma is a benign tumor of bone::what overall type of structure? that is seen in middle age"
"Osteomas most commonly arise on the surface of facial bones"
"What GI pathology is associated with osteomas? Gardner syndrome"
"Osteoid osteoma is a benign tumor of osteoblasts (which make osteoid), surrounded by a rim of reactive bone"
"What demographic is associated with osteoid osteoma? Males < 25 years old::age, gender"
"Osteoid osteoma typically arises in the cortex of the diaphysis of long bones (e.g. femur)"
"Osteoid osteoma presents with bone pain that is worse at night and DOES resolve with aspirin"
"Imaging of osteoid osteoma reveals a bony mass, < 2 cm, with a radiolucent core (osteoid)"
"Osteoblastoma is benign tumor of osteoblasts, typically > 2 cm"
"Osteoblastoma presents with bone pain, especially at night, that DOES NOT resolve with aspirin"
"Osteoblastoma typically arises in vertebrae::body location"
"Osteochondroma is a benign bone tumor with an overlying cartilage cap"
"What is the most common benign tumor of bone? Osteochondroma"
"Osteochondroma arises as a lateral projection of the growth plate (metaphysis)"
"The overlying cartilage in osteochondroma rarely transforms to chondrosarcoma"
"What demographic is associated with osteochondroma? Males < 25 years old::age, gender"
"Osteosarcoma is a malignant proliferation of osteoblasts"
"The peak incidence for primary osteosarcoma is in teenagers (10-20 years old)::specific"
"The peak incidence for secondary osteosarcoma is in the elderly (>65 years old)"
"What MSK pathology predisposes to osteosarcoma? Paget disease of bone"
"Osteosarcoma is associated with radiation exposure"
"What inherited cancers are associated with osteosarcoma? Li-Fraumeni syndrome and familial retinoblastoma::2"
"Osteosarcoma arises in the metaphysis of long bones, often around the knee::body location"
"Osteosarcoma typically presents as a pathologic fracture or bone pain with swelling"
"Imaging of osteosarcoma may reveal a(n) \sunburst\\" pattern on X-ray\""
"Imaging of osteosarcoma may reveal elevation of periosteum, which is known as Codman triangle"
"What bone tumor is characterized by a \sunburst\\" pattern and Codman triangle on X-ray? Osteosarcoma\""
"Biopsy of osteosarcoma reveals pleomorphic cells that produce osteoid"
"What is the treatment for osteosarcoma? En bloc resection and chemotherapy"
"Giant cell tumor is a bone tumor comprised of multinucleated giant cells and stromal cells that express RANKL"
"What demographic is associated with giant cell tumor of bone? Young adults (20 - 40 years old)::age group"
"Giant cell tumor arises in the epiphysis of long bones, often in the knee region"
"Which bone tumor arises in the epiphysis of long bones? Giant cell tumor"
"Giant cell tumor usually arises at the distal femur or proximal tibia"
"Giant cell tumor is associated with a(n) \soap bubble\\" appearance on X-ray\""
"Which bone tumor is associated with a \soap-bubble\\" appearance on X-ray? Giant cell tumor\""
"Giant cell tumor is a locally aggressive benign::benign or malignant tumor"
"Ewing sarcoma is a malignant proliferation of poorly-differentiated cells derived from neuroectoderm"
"Ewing sarcoma arises in the diaphysis of long bones (particularly the femur); other locations include pelvic flat bones, scapula, and ribs"
"What demographic is associated with Ewing sarcoma? Boys < 15 years old::age, gender"
"Ewing sarcoma is associated with a(n) \onion-skin\\" appearance on X-ray\""
"Which bone tumor is characterized by small, round blue cells that resemble lymphocytes? Ewing sarcoma"
"Ewing sarcoma is a bone tumor that is associated with t(11;22) translocation"
"What is the treatment for Ewing sarcoma? Chemotherapy"
"Chondroma is a benign tumor of cartilage"
"Which cartilage tumor arises in the medulla of the small bones in the hands and feet? Chondroma (benign)"
"Chondrosarcoma is a malignant cartilage-forming tumor"
"Which cartilage tumor arises in the medulla of the pelvis or central skeleton? Chondrosarcoma (malignant)"
"Which is more common, primary bone tumors or metastasis to the bone? Metastasis"
"Metastatic bone tumors usually result in osteolytic (punched-out) lesions"
"Prostatic carcinoma with bone metastasis classically produces osteoblastic lesions"
"The articular surface of adjoining bones is made of hyaline cartilage (type II collagen), surrounded by a joint capsule"
"The synovium lining of joint capsules secrete fluid rich in hyaluronic acid to lubricate the joint and facilitate smooth motion"
"What is the most common type of arthritis? Osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease)"
"Which joint pathology is caused by a progressive degeneration of articular cartilage, most often due to \wear and tear\\"? Osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease)\""
"The major risk factor for osteoarthritis is age (> 60); additional risk factors include obesity, joint trauma, and female gender"
"What gender is more commonly affected by osteoarthritis? Females"
"Osteoarthritis classically presents with joint stiffness that improves with rest"
"Osteoarthritis often presents with pain in weight-bearing joints after use (e.g. hip, knees, lower lumbar spine)"
"Osteoarthritis is characterized by fragments of cartilage floating in the joint space, called \joint mice\\"\""
"Osteoarthritis is characterized by eburnation (polishing) of the subchondral bone, due to friction from the opposing bone surface"
"Does osteoarthritis present with symmetric or asymmetric joint involvement? Asymmetric"
"Does osteoarthritis present with systemic symptoms (e.g. fever, fatigue)? No"
"Knee cartilage loss in osteoarthritis begins medially (\bowlegged\\")\""
"Pain management for osteoarthritis includes acetaminophen, NSAIDs, Celecoxib and/or intra-articular glucocorticoids"
"Which joint pathology is caused by a synovitis leading to formation of a pannus (inflamed granulation tissue)? Rheumatoid arthritis"
"Rheumatoid arthritis is associated with synovitis with formation of a(n) pannus, which is proliferative granulation tissue"
"What demographic is associated with rheumatoid arthritis? Women of late childbearing age::age, gender"
"Risk factors for rheumatoid arthritis include HLA-DR4, smoking, and silica exposure"
"Rheumatoid arthritis classically presents with joint stiffness that improves with activity"
"Does rheumatoid arthritis present with symmetric or asymmetric joint involvement? Symmetric"
"Does rheumatoid arthritis present with systemic symptoms (e.g. fever, fatigue)? Yes"
"This image is an example of a \swan neck\\" deformity"
"This image is an example of a \boutonniere\\" deformity"
"Rheumatoid arthritis may present with ulnar finger deviation and radial wrist deviation"
"One complication of long standing rheumatoid arthritis is subluxation of the cervical spine"
"Which arthritis is characterized by joint space narrowing, erosions, and periarticular osteopenia on imaging? Rheumatoid arthritis"
"Rheumatoid arthritis is associated with rheumatoid nodules, which are areas of fibrinoid necrosis with palisading histiocytes in the skin and visceral organs (e.g. lung)"
"Felty syndrome is rheumatoid arthritis with neutropenia and splenomegaly"
"What type of amyloidosis is associated with rheumatoid arthritis? Secondary (AA) amyloidosis"
"Rheumatoid factor is a(n) IgM autoantibody against Fc portion of IgG"
"Anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibody is specific for rheumatoid arthritis"
"Which arthritis, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, classically involves the PIPs and DIPs? Osteoarthritis (also the 1st CMC)"
"Which arthritis, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, is characterized by non-inflammatory synovial fluid (WBC < 2000/mm3)? Osteoarthritis"
"Which arthritis, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, improves with rest? Osteoarthritis"
"Which arthritis, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, classically involves the PIPs and MCP? Rheumatoid arthritis"
"Which arthritis, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, is characterized by inflammatory synovial fluid (WBC > 5000/mm3)? Rheumatoid arthritis"
"Which arthritis, osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis, improves with use? Rheumatoid arthritis"
"Heberden nodes refers to bony swellings in the distal interphalangeal (DIP) joints"
"Bouchard nodes refers to bony swellings in the proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints"
"Are Heberden and Bouchard nodes seen with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis? Osteoarthritis"
"Seronegative spondyloarthropathies are a group of joint disorders that lack rheumatoid factor and involve the axial skeleton"
"Seronegative spondyloarthropathies are associated with HLA-B27"
"The seronegative spondyloarthropathies may be remembered with the mnemonic \PAIR\\" P: Psoriatic arthritis A: Ankylosing spondylitis I: Inflammatory bowel disease R: Reactive arthritis\""
"Seronegative spondyloarthropathies may present with inflammatory back pain that improves with exercise"
"What eye pathology is associated with seronegative spondyloathropathies? Uveitis"
"Ankylosing spondylitis involves the spine and sacroiliac joints"
"What demographic is associated with ankylosing spondylitis? Young adult males::age, gender"
"Ankylosing spondylitis is characterized by a \bamboo spine\\" appearance on X-ray\""
"Extra-articular manifestations of ankylosing spondylitis include uveitis and aortic regurgitation (due to aortitis)"
"Reactive arthritis is characterized by a triad of conjunctivitis, urethritis, and arthritis, with patients often also having diarrhea::GI"
"Reactive arthritis classically arises in young adults after a(n) GI tract or Chlamydia trachomatis infection"
"Is reactive arthritis characterized by sterile or septic synovial fluid? Sterile"
"What joint pathology is associated with skin psoriasis and nail lesions? Psoriatic arthritis"
"Psoriatic arthritis most commonly involves the DIP joints of the hands and feet"
"Psoriatic arthritis is associated with \sausage\\" fingers and toes\""
"Psoriatic arthritis is associated with a \pencil-in-cup\\" deformity on X-ray\""
"Septic (infectious) arthritis is due to an infectious agent, usually bacterial"
"What is the most common cause of septic arthritis in young adults? Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"What bacteria typically causes septic arthritis in older children and adults? Staphylococcus aureus"
"Septic arthritis classically presents as a single red, swollen, and painful joint; usually the knee"
"What cause of arthritis presents with purulent synovial fluid (WBC > 50,000/mm3)? Septic (infectious) arthritis"
"Gonococcal arthritis may present with a triad of polyarthralgia, tenosynovitis, and dermatitis"
"Gout is caused by deposition of monosodium urate (MSU) crystals in tissues, especially the joints"
"Is gout more common in males or females? Males"
"Gout is associated with hyper-uricemia"
"Primary gout is caused by an unknown etiology (most common)"
"Gout may occur secondary to leukemia and myeloproliferative disorders due to increased cell turnover"
"Gout may occur secondary to Lesch-Nyhan syndrome due to inability to salvage purines"
"Buildup of lactic acid from von Gierke disease::disorder increases uric acid and leads to secondary gout"
"Gout may occur secondary to renal insufficiency, due to decreased ability to excrete uric acid"
"Does gout present with symmetric or asymmetric joint involvement? Asymmetric"
"Acute gout classically presents as a painful MTP joint of the big toe (podagra)"
"Deposition of MSU crystals (gout) results in activation of neutrophils"
"Acute gout may occur with alcohol consumption due to competition for the same excretion site in the kidney as uric acid"
"Acute gout may occur with red meat or seafood consumption, which are foods rich in purines"
"Chronic gout leads to tophus formation, which are white, chalky aggregates of uric acid crystals"
"Tophi, secondary to gout, often arise on the external ear, olecranon bursa, or Achilles tendon"
"Chronic gout may lead to renal failure due to deposition of urate crystals in kidney tubules (urate nephropathy)"
"Gout is characterized by needle-shaped crystals with negative birefringence under polarized light (seen in synovial fluid)"
"What color are MSU crystals (gout) when under parallel light? Yellow"
"What color are MSU crystals (gout) when under perpendicular light? Blue"
"Pseudogout is caused by deposition of calcium pyrophosphate crystals in tissues, especially the joints"
"Is pseudogout more common in males or females? Both genders affected equally"
"What GI pathology may be associated with pseudogout? Hemochromatosis"
"What endocrine pathology may be associated with pseudogout? Hyperparathyroidism"
"What joint is most commonly affected by pseudogout? Knee"
"Pseudogout may present on X-ray with cartilage calcification (chondrocalcinosis)"
"Pseudogout is characterized by rhomboid-shaped crystals with weakly positive birefringence under polarized light (seen synovial fluid)"
"What color are calcium pyrophosphate crystals (pseudogout) when under parallel light? Blue"
"Dermato-myositis in an inflammatory disorder of the skin and skeletal muscle"
"Dermato-myositis is characterized by peri-mysial inflammation with perifascicular atrophy on biopsy"
"Inflammation in dermato-myositis is mediated by CD-4+ T cells"
"Dermatomyositis may present with a \heliotrope\\" rash"
"Dermatomyositis may present with a(n) malar rash that is similar to SLE"
"Dermatomyositis may present with a \shawl and face\\" rash\""
"Dermatomyositis may present with Gottron papules, which are red papules on the elbows, knuckles, and knees"
"Dermato-myositis is associated with increased risk for occult malignancy"
"Poly-myositis is an inflammatory disorder of skeletal muscle only"
"Poly-myositis is characterized by endo-mysial inflammation with necrotic muscle fibers on biopsy"
"Inflammation in poly-myositis is mediated by CD-8+ T cells"
"Dermatomyositis and polymyositis present with bilateral proximal::proximal or distal muscle weakness"
"What enzyme is elevated in both dermatomyositis and polymyositis? Creatine kinase (CK)"
"Polymyositis and dermatomyositis may have ANA, anti-Jo-1, anti-Mi-2, and/or anti-SRP antibodies"
"What is the treatment for dermatomyositis and polymyositis? Corticosteroids, followed by immunosuppressant therapy"
"Polymyalgia rheumatica is characterized by sudden onset pain and stiffness in the proximal muscles (i.e. shoulders and hips), without::with or without muscular weakness"
"What demographic is associated with polymyalgia rheumatica? Women > 50 years old::age, gender"
"What vasculitis is associated with polymyalgia rheumatica? Giant cell (temporal) arteritis"
"Polymyalgia rheumatica is associated with a(n) normal serum creatine kinase (CK)"
"Polymyalgia rheumatica is associated with a(n) elevated serum CRP and ESR"
"What is the treatment for polymyalgia rheumatica? Low-dose corticosteroids"
"Fibromyalgia presents with chronic, widespread musculoskeletal pain associated with \tender points\\"\""
"Fibromyalgia is associated with a(n) normal serum creatine kinase (CK)"
"Fibromyalgia is associated with a(n) normal serum CRP and ESR"
"Non-pharmacologic treatment for fibromyalgia may include regular exercise"
"Pharmacologic treatment for fibromyalgia may include anti-convulsants or anti-depressants"
"What classes of antidepressant are useful for treating fibromyalgia? TCAs and SNRIs::2"
"X-linked muscular dystrophy is characterized by muscle wasting and replacement of skeletal muscle by adipose tissue"
"What gene is defective in X-linked muscular dystrophy (e.g. Duchenne, Becker)? Dystrophin (DMD) gene"
"Dystrophin normally anchors the muscle cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix; primarily in skeletal and cardiac muscle"
"Loss of dystrophin (e.g. X-linked muscular dystrophy) results in myo-necrosis"
"Why is the dystrophin (DMD) gene prone to spontaneous mutations? Largest protein-coding human gene"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy? X-linked"
"Duchenne muscular dystrophy is typically due to frameshift or non-sense mutations, resulting in a truncated or absent dystrophin protein"
"Becker muscular dystrophy is typically due to a non-frameshift deletion, resulting in a partially functional dystrophin protein"
"Which is more severe, Duchenne or Becker muscular dystrophy? Duchenne"
"Duchenne muscular dystrophy presents with weakness in the pelvic girdle muscles and progresses superiorly"
"Duchenne muscular dystrophy classically presents with pseudohypertrophy of calf muscles"
"Duchenne muscular dystrophy typically presents before 5 years of age"
"Duchenne muscular dystrophy is associated with increased serum CK and aldolase"
"What is a common cause of death in Duchenne muscular dystrophy? Dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Becker muscular dystrophy typically presents in adolescence or early adulthood"
"Duchenne muscular dystrophy classically presents with the Gower sign, in which a patient uses their upper extremities to help stand up"
"Myotonic dystrophy (type 1) is due to CTG trinucleotide repeat expansion in the DMPK gene"
"What is the mode of inheritance of myotonic dystrophy? Autosomal dominant"
"Myotonic dystrophy is due to abnormal expression of the enzyme myotonin protein kinase"
"The symptoms of myotonic dystrophy may be remembered with the mnemonic \CTG\\": C: Cataracts T: Toupee (early balding in men) G: Gonadal atrophy Other symptoms include myotonia"
"Myasthenia gravis is caused by autoantibodies to post-synaptic ACh receptors at the NMJ"
"What gender is more commonly affected by myasthenia gravis? Females"
"Myasthenia gravis presents with muscle weakness that worsens with muscle use"
"Myasthenia gravis classically involves the eyes, leading to ptosis and diplopia"
"Do the symptoms of myasthenia gravis improve with administration of an AChE inhibitor (e.g. edrophonium)? Yes"
"What malignancy is associated with myasthenia gravis? Thymoma (also may have thymic hyperplasia)"
"Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is caused by autoantibodies to pre-synaptic Voltage-Dependent Ca2+ Channelss at the NMJ"
"Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome presents with muscle weakness that improves with muscle use"
"What malignancy is associated with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome? Small cell lung cancer"
"Is the tensilon test (administration of edrophonium) very useful in diagnosis of Lambert-Eaton? No"
"Which is more common, myasthenia gravis or Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome? Myasthenia gravis"
"Raynaud phenomenon is decreased blood flow to the skin due to arteriolar vasospasm in response to cold or stress"
"Raynaud phenomenon is characterized by a skin color change from white (ischemia) to blue (hypoxia) to red (reperfusion)"
"Raynaud phenomenon is called Raynaud syndrome when it is secondary (e.g. mixed connective tissue disease, SLE, CREST)"
"Raynaud phenomenon may result in digital ulceration::not clubbing due to critical ischemia"
"What is the treatment for Raynaud phenomenon? Ca2+ channel blockers"
"Lipoma is a benign tumor of adipose tissue contained within a fibrous capsule"
"What is the most common benign soft tissue tumor in adults? Lipoma"
"Liposarcoma is a malignant tumor of adipose tissue"
"What is the most common malignant soft tissue tumor in adults? Liposarcoma"
"What cell type is characteristic of a liposarcoma? Lipoblast"
"Rhabdomyoma is a benign tumor of striated muscle"
"What is the most common malignant soft tissue tumor in children? Rhabomyosarcoma"
"The layers of the epidermis from surface to base are: 1. Stratum Corneum 2. Stratum Lucidum 3. Stratum Granulosum 4. Stratum Spinosum 5. Stratum Basale"
"Which layer of the epidermis is the regenerative (stem cell) layer? Stratum basalis"
"Which layer of the epidermis is characterized by desmosomes between keratinocytes? Stratum spinosum"
"Which layer of the epidermis is characterized by granules in keratinocytes? Stratum granulosum"
"Which layer of the epidermis is characterized by keratin in anucleate cells? Stratum corneum"
"Which skin layers contain nerve endings, blood vessels, lymphatics, and adnexal structures (e.g. hair follicles, glands)? Dermis and hypodermis::2"
"Which epithelial cell junction prevents paracellular movement of solutes? Tight junctions (zonula occludens)"
"What proteins are tight junctions composed of? Claudins and occludins::2"
"Which epithelial cell junction connects actin cytoskeletons of adjacent cells? Adherens junctions (zonula adherens, belt desmosome)"
"Adherens junctions form a \belt\\" that connects actin cytoskeletons of adjacent cells via cadherins\""
"Which epithelial cell junction connects intermediate filaments of adjacent cells? Desmosomes (macula adherens, spot desmosome)"
"Desmosomes connect intermediate filaments of adjacent cells via cadherins"
"What ion is required by cadherin proteins in epithelial cell junctions? Ca2+"
"Which epithelial cell junction permits electrical/chemical communication between cells? Gap junctions"
"Gap junctions contain channel proteins called connexons, which allow communication between cells"
"Which epithelial cell junction connects keratin in basal cells to underlying basement membrane? Hemidesmosomes"
"What protein in hemidesmosomes binds to fibronectin, laminin, or collagen in the basement membrane? Integrin *bonus-Ca2+ dependent? Y/N"
"What dermatologic lesion is a flat lesion < 1 cm; well-circumscribed color change in skin color? Macule"
"What dermatologic lesion is a macule > 1 cm? Patch"
"What dermatologic lesion is a elevated solid skin lesion < 1 cm? Papule"
"What dermatologic lesion is a papule > 1 cm? Plaque"
"What dermatologic lesion is a small fluid-containing blister < 1 cm? Vesicle"
"What dermatologic lesion is a large fluid-containing blister > 1 cm? Bulla"
"What dermatologic lesion is a vesicle containing pus? Pustule"
"What dermatologic lesion is a transient smooth papule or plaque? Wheal"
"What dermatologic lesion is a flaking off of stratum corneum? Scale"
"What dermatologic lesion is a dry exudate? Crust"
"Hyperkeratosis is defined as increased thickness of the stratum corneum (e.g. psoriasis, calluses)"
"Which skin layer is thickened with callus formation? Stratum corneum"
"Parakeratosis is defined as hyperkeratosis with retention of nuclei in the stratum corneum (e.g. psoriasis)"
"Hypergranulosis is defined as increased thickness of the stratum granulosum (e.g. Lichen planus)"
"Spongiosis is defined as epidermal accumulation of edematous fluid in intercellular spaces (e.g. eczematous dermatitis)"
"Acantholysis is defined as separation of epidermal cells (e.g. Pemphigus vulgaris)"
"Acanthosis is defined as epidermal hyperplasia (increased spinosum)"
"Atopic (eczematous) dermatitis presents with an intensely pruritic, oozing rash with vesicles and edema due to a type I HSR"
"Atopic (eczematous) dermatitis usually appears on the face in infancy"
"Atopic (eczematous) dermatitis often manifests as lichenification on flexor surfaces in children and adults"
"Atopic (eczematous) dermatitis is associated with asthma and allergic rhinitis"
"Atopic (eczematous) dermatitis is associated with increased serum IgE"
"Contact dermatitis presents with a pruritic, oozing rash with vesicles and edema due to a type IV HSR"
"Contact dermatitis arises upon exposure to allergens (e.g. nickel, poison ivy, neomycin)"
"Treatment of contact dermatitis involves removal of the offending agent and topical glucocorticoids if needed"
"Acne vulgaris is due to chronic inflammation of hair follicles and associated sebaceous glands, which secrete its contents through a(n) holocrine mechanism"
"Acne arises due to hormone-related increase in sebum and blockage of hair follicles by excess keratin"
"What bacteria causes acne by producing lipases that break down sebum, releasing proinflammatory fatty acids? Propionibacterium (Cutibacterium) acnes"
"Treatment of acne vulgaris may include benzoyl peroxide and antibiotics, which are anti-microbial"
"Treatment of acne vulgaris may include vitamin A derivatives, which reduces hyperkeratinzation and sebum production"
"Psoriasis is a characterized by well-circumscribed, salmon-colored plaques with silverly scale"
"Psoriasis typically presents on extensor surfaces and the scalp"
"Psoriasis is associated with nail pitting and psoriatic arthritis"
"Psoriasis is due to excessive keratinocyte proliferation"
"What HLA subtype is associated with psoriasis? HLA-C"
"Psoriasis is characterized histologically by acanthosis with parakeratosis"
"Psoriasis may be associated with Munro microabscesses, which are collections of neutrophils in the stratum corneum"
"Psoriasis is associated with Auspitz sign, which is pinpoint bleeding when scale is picked off"
"Psoriasis is associated with increased thickness of the stratum spinosum"
"Psoriasis is associated with decreased thickness of the stratum granulosum"
"Treatment for psoriasis includes corticosteroids, PUVA (psoralen + UV-A light), or immune-modulating thrapy"
"What inflammatory dermatitis presents as pruritic, planar, polygonal, purple papules? Lichen planus"
"Lichen planus often presents on the wrists, elbows, and oral mucosa"
"Lichen planus often presents with reticular white lines on the surface, known as Wickham striae, especially on oral mucosa"
"Lichen planus is characterized histologically by inflammation of the dermal-epidermal junction with a \saw-tooth\\" appearance\""
"Which inflammatory dermatitis has a \saw-tooth\\" appearance histologically? Lichen planus\""
"Lichen planus is an inflammatory dermatitis associated with chronic hepatitis C infection"
"Which inflammatory dermatitis presents with hypergranulosis? Lichen planus"
"Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune inactivation of desmosomes between keratinocytes"
"Pemphigus vulgaris is due to IgG antibodies against desmoglein::specific antigen"
"Which blistering skin disorder presents with thin-walled bullae that rupture easily? Pemphigus vulgaris"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized by acantholysis? Pemphigus vulgaris"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized histologically by a \tombstone\\" appearance? Pemphigus vulgaris\""
"Which blistering skin disorder, pemphigus vulgaris or bullous pemphigoid, may involve the oral mucosa? Pemphigus vulgaris"
"Is pemphigus vulgaris associated with a positive Nikolsky sign (separation of epidermis with manual stroking of skin)? Yes"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized by a \fish net\\" (reticular) pattern on immunofluorescence? Pemphigus vulgaris\""
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is pemphigus vulgaris and bullous pemphigoid? Type II HSR"
"Bullous pemphigoid is an autoimmune destruction of hemidesmosomes between basal cells and the underlying basement membrane"
"Bullous pemphigoid is due to IgG antibodies against hemidesmosome components (BP180)"
"Which blistering skin disorder presents with tense blisters with eosinophils that don't rupture easily? Bullous pemphigoid"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized histologically by detachment of the basal cell layer from the basement membrane? Bullous pemphigoid"
"Does bullous pemphigoid typically involve the oral mucosa? No"
"Is bullous pemphigoid associated with a positive Nikolsky sign (separation of epidermis with manual stroking of skin)? No"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized by a linear pattern on immunofluorescence? Bullous pemphigoid"
"Which blistering skin disorder, pemphigus vulgaris or bullous pemphigoid is more severe? Pemphigus vulgaris (\vulgaris is vulgar\\")\""
"Dermatitis herpetiformis is an autoimmune deposition of IgA at the tips of dermal papillae"
"Which blistering skin disorder presents as pruritic vesicles and bullae that are grouped? Dermatitis herpetiformis"
"What malabsorption syndrome is associated with dermatitis herpetiformis? Celiac disease"
"Dermatitis herpetiformis may be treated with dapsone and a gluten-free diet"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized by a targetoid rash and bullae? Erythema multiforme"
"The targetoid appearance of erythema multiforme is due to central epidermal necrosis, surrounded by erythema"
"Erythema multiforme is a blistering skin disorder most commonly associated with HSV infection"
"In addition to HSV, what other infection is associated with erythema multiforme? Mycoplasma pneumoniae"
"Erythema multiforme with lip/oral mucosal involvement and fever is termed Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized by fever and sloughing of skin at the dermal-epidermal junction? Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"Stevens-Johnson syndrome typically arises as an adverse drug reaction"
"When Stevens-Johnson syndrome involves > 30% of the body surface it is termed toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN)"
"Seborrheic keratoses are benign::benign or malignant squamous neoplasms, typically seen on the head, trunk, and extremities in the elderly"
"Which skin disorder can present as a raised, discolored plaque with a waxy, \stuck on\\" appearance? Seborrheic keratosis\""
"Seborrheic keratosis is characterized histologically by keratin pseudocysts (horn cysts)"
"The Leser-Trélat sign is sudden onset of multiple seborrheic keratoses and suggests underlying malignancy (e.g. GI tract)"
"Which skin disorders presents with epidermal hyperplasia and darkening of the skin (\velvet-like\\" skin)? Acanthosis nigricans\""
"Acanthosis nigricans is typically associated with insulin resistance or visceral malignancy (esp. gastric carcinoma)"
"Which skin cancer is the most common cutaneous malignancy? Basal cell carcinoma"
"What is the major risk factor for basal cell carcinoma? UV-B light"
"Which skin cancer typically presents as an elevated nodule with telangiectasias, rolled borders, central crusting, and/or ulcerations? Basal cell carcinoma (nodular type)"
"Which skin cancer presents as a \pink"
"Superficial basal cell carcinoma may present as a scaling plaque"
"The classic location for basal cell carcinoma is the upper lip"
"Basal cell carcinoma is characterized histologically by nodules of basal cells with peripheral palisading"
"Does basal cell carcinoma typically metastasize? No (rare)"
"Squamous cell carcinoma is characterized histologically by formation of keratin pearls"
"Risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma include UVB-induced DNA damage"
"Risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma of skin include immunosuppressive therapy, arsenic poisoning, and chronic inflammation (e.g. draining sinus tract)"
"What is the most common cancer that develops as a result of immunosuppressive therapy? Squamous cell carcinoma of skin"
"The classic location for squamous cell carcinoma is the lower lip"
"Which skin cancer presents as an ulcerative red lesion with frequent scale? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Does squamous cell carcinoma typically metastasize? No (rare)"
"Actinic keratosis is a precursor lesion of squamous cell carcinoma"
"Which skin disorder presents as rough, \gritty\\""
"Keratoacanthoma is a well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma that develops rapidly and regresses spontaneously"
"Melanocytes are responsible for skin pigmentation and are present in the basal layer of the epidermis"
"What cellular organelle is the site of synthesis/storage of melanin? Melanosomes"
"Melanocytes synthesize melanin using the amino acid tyrosine as a precursor molecule"
"What is the embryonic origin of melanocytes? Neural crest"
"Which skin disorder is characterized by localized loss of skin pigmentation? Vitiligo"
"What skin disorder is caused by autoimmune destruction of melanocytes? Vitiligo"
"Which skin disorder is characterized by congenital lack of pigmentation? Albinism"
"Albinism is usually due to decreased tyrosinase activity or defective tyrosine transport"
"Albinism is associated with increased risk of skin cancer"
"Albinism is associated with a(n) normal melanocyte count with decreased melanin production"
"Freckles (ephelides) are darker than surrouding skin due to increased number of melanosomes"
"Melasma (chloasma) is a mask-like hyperpigmentation of the cheeks associated with pregnancy and OCPs"
"Nevus (mole) is a benign neoplasm of melanocytes"
"Congenital nevi are present at birth and often associated with hair"
"Junctional nevi are flat macules, most commonly seen in children"
"Intradermal nevi are raised papules, most commonly seen in adults"
"Can moles (nevi) transform into melanoma? Yes"
"Melanoma is a malignant neoplasm of melanocytes"
"What is the most common cause of death from skin cancer? Melanoma"
"Melanoma is associated with sunlight exposure and dysplastic nevi"
"Dysplastic nevus syndrome is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance disorder characterized by formation of dysplastic nevi"
"The ABCDEs of melanoma are: A: Asymmetry B: Border irregularity C: Color variation D: Diameter > 6 mm::># E: Evolution over time"
"The initial growth phase of melanoma is characterized by radial growth horizontally along the epidermis and superficial dermis"
"Melanoma progresses to vertical growth into the deep dermis"
"Does the radial phase of melanoma growth have a high risk of metastasis? No"
"Does the vertical phase of melanoma growth have a high risk of metastasis? Yes"
"What is the most important prognostic factor in predicting melanoma metastasis? Depth of invasion (Breslow thickness)"
"What is the most common variant of melanoma? Superficial spreading"
"What is the prognosis of the superficial spreading subtype of melanoma? Good (early radial growth)"
"What is the prognosis of the lentigo maligna subtype of melanoma? Good (radial growth, \melanoma in situ\\")\""
"What is the prognosis of the nodular subtype of melanoma? Poor (early vertical growth)"
"Which subtype of melanoma arises on the palms or soles? Acral lentiginous *bonus: cause compared to other types.."
"What area of the body does the acral lentiginous subtype of melanoma typically arise? Palms or soles"
"The highest prevalence of the acral lentiginous subtype of melanoma is more common in which two races? African-Americans and Asians"
"What tumor marker may be used to identify melanoma? S100"
"Melanoma is often driven by activating mutations in B-RAF kinase"
"Metastatic or unresectable melanoma in patients with BRAF V600E::AAs mutations may benefit from vemurafenib, a BRAF kinase inhibitor"
"Which infectious skin disorder is a superficial bacterial skin infection characterized by painful, non-itchy pustules and honey-colored crusting? Impetigo"
"Impetigo is most often due to S. aureus or S. pyogenes infection"
"Bullous impetigo has bullae and is usually caused by S. aureus infection"
"Which infectious skin disorder is an infection involving the upper dermis and superficial lymphatics? Erysipelas"
"Erysipelas is an infectious skin disorder characterized by well-defined border"
"Erysipelas is usually caused by S. pyogenes infection"
"Which infectious skin disorder is an acute, painful infection of the deeper dermis and subcutaneous tissue? Cellulitis"
"Cellulitis is most often due to S. aureus or S. pyogenes infection"
"Which infectious skin disorder is caused by infection with anaerobic \flesh-eating\\" bacteria or S. pyogenes? Necrotizing fasciitis\""
"Necrotizing fasciitis presents with crepitus due to production of methane and CO2"
"Necrotizing fasciitis causes bullae formation, purple::color skin discoloration, and pain out of proportion to exam findings"
"Which infectious skin disorder presents with sloughing of skin with erythematous rash and fever? Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome"
"Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome is characterized by epidermolysis of the stratum granulosum"
"Staphycoccal scalded skin syndrome is seen in newborns and children, as well as adults with renal insufficiency"
"Which infectious skin disorder presents as flesh-colored papules with a rough surface? Verruca (wart)"
"What infection is associated with verrucae? HPV"
"Which infectious skin disorder presents as firm, pink, umbilicated papules? Molluscum contagiosum"
"What infection is associated with molluscum contagiosum? Poxvirus"
"Molluscum contagiosum is typically seen in children but can be sexually transmitted in adults"
"Molluscum contagiosum is characterized histologically by cytoplasmic inclusions (molluscum bodies)"
"Rosacea is an inflammatory facial skin disorder characterized by erythematous papules and pustules, but no comedones"
"Which skin disorder is associated with facial flushing in response to external stimuli (e.g. alcohol, heat)? Rosacea"
"Phymatous rosacea can cause rhinophyma, which is a bulbous deformation of the nose"
"Erythema nodosum is a painful, raised inflammatory lesion of subcutaneous fat (panniculitis), usually on the anterior shins"
"Which skin disorder begins as a \Herald patch\\" followed days later by other scaly"
"Which type of UV light is the main cause of sunburn? UV-B"
"Which type of UV light is the main cause of tanning and photoaging? UV-A"
"Which type of UV light increases risk of skin cancer? Both UVA and UVB :)"
"What vascular tumor is a benign, capillary skin papule caused by Bartonella henselae infection in AIDS patients? Bacillary angiomatosis"
"Bacillary angiomatosis has a(n) neutrophilic infiltrate, which distinguishes it from Kaposi sarcoma"
"What vascular tumor is associated with HHV-8 and HIV? Kaposi sarcoma"
"Kaposi sarcoma has a(n) lymphocytic infiltrate, which distinguishes it from bacillary angiomatosis"
"What vascular tumor is a benign capillary hemangioma seen in elderly individuals? Cherry hemangioma"
"Do cherry hemangiomas regress? No"
"What vascular tumor is a benign capillary hemangioma seen in infants? Strawberry hemangioma"
"Strawberry (superficial) hemangiomas appear in the first few weeks of life and grow rapidly, before regressing spontaneously"
"Do strawberry (superficial) hemangiomas regress? Yes"
"What vascular tumor is a cavernous lymphangioma of the neck, associated with Turner syndrome? Cystic hygroma"
"What vascular tumor is a benign, painful, red-blue tumor, formed from AV shunts under fingernails? Glomus tumor"
"Glomus tumors arise from modified smooth muscle cells of the thermoregulatory glomus body"
"What vascular tumor is a polyploid lobulated capillary hemangioma that is associated trauma and pregnancy? Pyogenic granuloma"
"What skin disorder is characterized by painful, pruritic hyperpigmented papules and pustules that occur as a result of shaving? Pseudofolliculitis barbae"
"What demographic is associated with pseudofolliculitis barbae? African-American males"
"Vitamin K is a cofactor for the enzymatic activation of clotting factors"
"Vitamin K promotes γ-carboxylation of factors II, VII, IX, X and protein C/S"
"Vitamin K promotes γ-carboxylation at glutamic acid::amino acid residues"
"What enzyme activates vitamin K? Epoxide reductase"
"What is the mechanism of action of warfarin? Epoxide reductase inhibitor::specific enzyme"
"Warfarin is an anti-coagulant that intereferes with γ-carboxylation of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors (II, VII, IX, X)"
"What is the first clotting factor to be reduced when starting warfarin therapy? Factor VII"
"Warfarin's onset of action is 8 - 12 hours (slow)"
"What is the route of administration of warfarin? Oral"
"Warfarin has a(n) long half-life"
"What laboratory assay is used to follow the effects of warfarin? PT/INR"
"The goal INR for warfarin therapy is typically between 2 - 3"
"Which anticoagulant, warfarin or heparin, is used for chronic anticoagulation? Warfarin"
"Does warfarin cross the placenta? Yes (lipid soluble)"
"Warfarin can cause hemorrhage and abnormal bone formation in utero"
"The anti-coagulants protein C and S are reduced early in warfarin therapy, leading to a(n) hyper-coagulable state"
"What warfarin complication presents a few days after beginning treatment due to an early transient hypercoagulable state? Warfarin-induced skin necrosis"
"Coadministration of heparin when starting warfarin therapy prevents the early hypercoagulable state"
"Warfarin anti-coagulation can be reversed with vitamin K (delayed effect)"
"For rapid reversal of warfarin, fresh frozen plasma (FFP) or prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC) should be administered"
"Warfarin is metabolized by cytochrome P450 and thus has many drug interactions"
"Metabolism of warfarin is affected by polymorphisms in the genes for vitamin K epoxide reductase complex (VKORC1) and CYP2C9::specific (p450 enzyme which metabolizes warfarin)"
"Which anticoagulant, warfarin or heparin, has a slow onset of action (days)? Warfarin"
"What is the site of action of warfarin? Liver::organ"
"Unfractionated heparin is the largest indirect thrombin inhibitor"
"Heparin exerts its effects by activating antithrombin III"
"Which clotting factors are inactivated by unfractionated heparin? Thrombin (IIa) and factor Xa"
"What laboratory assay is used to follow heparin activity? aPTT"
"Which anticoagulant, warfarin or heparin, is used for immediate anticoagulation? Heparin"
"Which anticoagulant, warfarin or heparin, may be used in the setting of an acute MI? Heparin"
"What are the routes of administration of heparin? IV::acute or subcutaneous::prophylaxis"
"What is the cause of a hypercoagulable state in a patient on heparin therapy? Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)"
"What effect may heparin have on K+ levels? Increased (hyperkalemia; secondary to hypoaldosteronism)"
"What MSK pathology is associated with heparin use? Osteoporosis"
"What treatment is used for reversal of heparin therapy? Protamine sulfate"
"Unfractionated heparin has a relatively short half-life"
"What drug class do enoxaparin and dalteparin belong to? Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)"
"Which clotting factors are inactivated by the low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)? Mostly Factor Xa, but also Thrombin, Factor XIa, and Factor IXa"
"How is low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) eliminated from the body? Renal excretion"
"Does heparin cross the placenta? No (water soluble)"
"Which anticoagulant, warfarin or heparin, has a fast onset of action (hours)? Heparin"
"What is the site of action of heparin? Blood"
"Fondaparinux is an anticoagulant that acts only on factor Xa"
"Is protamine sulfate effective at reversing the effects of LMWH and fondaparinux? No"
"Compared to heparin, LMWH and fondaparinux have longer half-lives"
"One advantage of LMWH and fondaparinux is that they do not require routine monitoring"
"Compared to unfractionated heparin, LMWH and fondaparinux are less likely to cause HIT"
"What drug class does bivalirudin belong to? Direct thrombin inhibitor"
"What drug class do argatroban and dabigatran belong to? Direct thrombin inhibitors"
"Which direct thrombin inhibitor is administered orally? Dabigatran"
"Do direct thrombin inhibitors require lab monitoring? No"
"What class of anticoagulants are used to treat heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)? Direct thrombin inhibitors"
"What drug is used to reverse the effects of dabigatran? Idarucizumab"
"What drug class does rivaroxaban and apixaban belong to? Direct Xa inhibitors"
"What is the route of administration of direct factor Xa inhibitors (apixaban, rivaroxaban)? Oral"
"Do direct factor Xa inhibitors (apixaban, rivaroxaban) require lab monitoring? No"
"Direct factor Xa inhibitors may be used for stroke prophylaxis in patients with atrial fibrillation"
"Are the effects of direct factor Xa inhibitors easily reversible? No"
"What adverse effect is common to all anticoagulants (heparin, direct thrombin inhibitors, direct Xa inhibitors, etc.) Bleeding"
"Binding between vWF and platelets occurs via the GPIb receptor"
"ADP is released upon platelet degranulation and binds to P2Y12 receptors on platelets, resulting in platelet aggregation"
"Thromboxane A2 is released upon platelet degranulation and causes platelet aggregation and activation"
"Thromboxane A2 is synthesized within platelets by the enzyme COX-1"
"Cyclooxygenase-2 expression is induced by inflammation"
"What is the precursor molecule of thromboxane A2? Arachidonic acid"
"TXA2 causes vaso-constriction"
"Does aspirin inhibit COX-1 or COX-2? Both :)"
"Is aspirin a reversible or irreversible inhibitor of COX-1 and COX-2? Irreversible"
"Aspirin inhibits cyclooxygenase via irreversible covalent acetylation"
"Aspirin may cause a \pseudo-allergy\\" due to excess leukotriene synthesis\""
"What ADP receptor inhibitor is reversible? Ticagrelor"
"ADP receptor inhibitors (e.g. clopidogrel) prevent expression of GPIIb/IIIa receptors on the platelet surface"
"Do ADP receptor inhibitors reduce risk of future cardiovascular events? Yes"
"Do ADP receptor inhibitors reduce symptoms of claudication in peripheral artery disease? No"
"In the setting of acute MI, aspirin should be administered in a(n) chewable form"
"Dual-platelet therapy with aspirin and ADP receptor inhibitors is used to prevent coronary stent thrombosis"
"What drug class does ticlopidine belong to? ADP receptor inhibitor"
"Ticlopidine is an ADP receptor antagonist associated with granulocytopenia as an adverse effect"
"Platelet aggregation occurs via binding between the GPIIb/IIIa receptor and fibrinogen"
"What drug class does abciximab belong to? GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor"
"Abciximab is a monoclonal IgG antibody against the GPIIb/IIIa receptor"
"What drug class do eptifibatide and tirofiban belong to? GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors"
"What adverse hematologic effect is associated with GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors? Thrombocytopenia"
"What laboratory assay is increased with anti-platelet therapy? Bleeding time"
"What drug class does dipyridamole belong to? Nonspecific PDE inhibitor"
"What drug class does cilostazol belong to? Antiplatelet PDE-3 inhibitor"
"PDE inhibitors (e.g. cilostazol, dipyridamole) increase cAMP, which inhibits platelet aggregation"
"In addition to preventing platelet aggregation, cilostazol and dipyridamole also cause vaso-dilation"
"Can PDE inhibitors reduce symptoms of claudication in peripheral artery disease? Yes (e.g. cilostazol)"
"Cilostazol causes coronary artery vasodilation, which may result in coronary steal syndrome"
"What class of anti-platelet drugs may cause facial flushing and abdominal pain as adverse effects? PDE inhibitors (cilostazol, dipyridamole)"
"What class of anti-platelet drugs may cause TTP as an adverse effect? ADP receptor inhibitors"
"What class of anti-platelet drugs may cause thrombocytopenia as an adverse effect? GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors"
"What drug class do alteplase, reteplase, tenecteplase belong to? Thrombolytics (recombinant tPA)"
"What drug class does streptokinase belong to? Thrombolytics"
"Thrombolytics exert their effects via direct or indirect conversion of plasminogen to plasmin"
"Activated plasmin degrades fibrin clots"
"Thrombolytics result in a(n) elevated PT and elevated PTT"
"What effect do thrombolytics have on platelet count? No effect"
"What type of stroke (hemorrhagic, ischemic) may be treated with thrombolytics, and in what time frame? Ischemic::type? (if within 3 - 4.5 hours::timeframe?)"
"IV thrombolytics can be used for direct thrombolysis of severe PE and DVT"
"What class of drugs may be used for reperfusion therapy for STEMI when PCI is not available? Thrombolytics"
"What is the preferred reperfusion therapy for STEMI? Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI)"
"PCI is ideally performed within 2 hours in the setting of acute STEMI"
"What is the main adverse effect of thrombolytics? Bleeding"
"Thrombolytics are contraindicated in patients with recent surgery or head trauma"
"Thrombolytics are contraindicated in patients with any signs of active bleeds"
"Thrombolytics are contraindicated in patients with severe hypertension::BP"
"What adverse effect is rarely associated with streptokinase use? Allergic reaction and anaphylaxis"
"What drugs are used to reverse the effects of thrombolytics? Aminocaproic acid and Tranexamic acid"
"Reversal of thrombolytic therapy may involve platelet transfusions or factor corrections (e.g. FFP, cryoprecipitate, PCC)"
"What is the precursor molecule to prostanoids and leukotrienes? Arachidonic acid"
"Phospholipase A2 hydrolyzes arachidonic acid from the cell membrane"
"COX-1 is constitutively expressed"
"COX-2 is inducible by inflammation"
"COX-1 synthesizes gastric cytoprotective prostaglandins"
"COX-2 is expressed in vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells"
"Prostacyclin (PGI2) is synthesized by COX-2"
"Prostacyclin (PGI2) is a potent vaso-dilator"
"PGI2 inhibits platelet aggregation"
"Which form(s) of cyclooxygenase synthesize prostaglandins that dilate the afferent arteriole? Both COX-1 and COX-2 :)"
"COX-2 synthesizes prostaglandins that increase vascular permeability"
"Which form(s) of cyclooxygenase synthesize prostaglandins that increase pain sensitivity? COX-2"
"Which form(s) of cyclooxygenase synthesize prostaglandins that induce fever? COX-2"
"Do most NSAIDs inhibit COX-1 or COX-2? Both :)"
"Do most NSAIDs reversibly or irreversibly inhibit COX-1 and COX-2? Reversibly (except aspirin)"
"What drug class do diclofenac and ketorolac belong to? NSAIDs"
"What drug class does indomethacin belong to? NSAIDs"
"What drug class do meloxicam and piroxicam belong to? NSAIDs"
"What drug class does naproxen belong to? NSAIDs"
"One adverse effect of NSAIDs is gastric ulcers::GI due to inhibition of COX-1"
"Most NSAIDs increase risk of GI bleeding due to inhibition of TXA2 (platelet aggregator)::not COX"
"Inhibition of COX-1 by NSAIDs leads to increased bleeding time"
"NSAIDs can increase blood pressure"
"NSAIDs can cause acute interstitial nephritis as an adverse effect"
"NSAIDs cause vasoconstriction of the afferent arteriole of the kidney, which decreases GFR"
"NSAIDs can cause renal papillary::kidney necrosis as an adverse effect"
"NSAIDs may reduce excretion of lithium, which is commonly used as an antipsychotic drug"
"What type of anemia will rarely be caused by NSAID therapy? Aplastic anemia"
"Which NSAID is most associated with aplastic anemia? Indomethacin"
"What effect may NSAIDs have on K+ levels? Increased (hyperkalemia; secondary to hypoaldosteronism)"
"What is the primary effect of low doses (< 300mg/day) of aspirin? Decreased platelet aggregation"
"What is the primary effect of intermediate doses (300 - 2400mg/day) of aspirin? Antipyretic and analgesic"
"What is the primary effect of high doses (> 2400mg/day) of aspirin? Anti-inflammatory"
"What vasculitis is treated with aspirin? Kawasaki disease"
"What adverse effect may be caused by aspirin administration to a child with a viral infection? Reye's syndrome"
"What acid-base disorder is seen with early phases of aspirin toxicity? Respiratory alkalosis"
"What acid-base disorder is seen with late phases of aspirin toxicity? High anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"Aspirin is an NSAID that is associated with tinnitus::ear as an adverse effect"
"In the setting of acute aspirin toxicity, activated charcoal can be used to absorb aspirin"
"Aspirin toxicity may be treated with alkalinization of serum/urine"
"NSAIDs may be contraindicated for patients with renal insufficiency"
"NSAIDs may be contraindicated during the 3rd trimester of pregnancy due to risk of premature closure of the ductus arteriosus"
"What drug class does celecoxib belong to? Selective COX-2 inhibitor"
"Which NSAID has reduced risk of ulcers and bleeding? Celecoxib"
"What adverse effect is associated with celecoxib use? Increased risk of thrombosis"
"Which NSAID is a sulfa drug? Celecoxib"
"Are NSAIDs useful as antipyretics and analgesics? Yes"
"Are NSAIDs useful as anti-inflammatory agents? Yes"
"Acetaminophen exerts its effects via reversible::reversible or irreversible inhibition of cyclooxygenase"
"Where does acetaminophen exert its effects? CNS (Inactivated peripherally)"
"Is acetaminophen useful as an antipyretic and analgesic? Yes"
"Is acetaminophen useful as an anti-inflammatory agent? No"
"What toxic intermediate is formed in small amounts by metabolism of acetaminophen? NAPQI"
"Acetaminophen toxicity results in depletion of hepatic glutathione stores by NAPQI"
"Overdose of acetaminophen causes hepatic necrosis"
"In the setting of acute acetaminophen toxicity, activated charcoal can be used to absorb acetaminopen"
"What is the antidote for acetaminophen poisoning? N-acetylcysteine"
"N-acetylcysteine helps restore reduced glutathione stores in the setting of acetaminophen toxicity"
"Two distinct etiologies of oral cancer Tobacco/Alcohol use; HPV (human papilloma virus)"
"What infection is associated with cancer of the tonsil, base of the tongue and oropharynx? HPV"
"Reversible inhibition of growth Bacterio-static"
"Irreversible inhibition of growth Bacterio-cidal"
"What is the lowest concentration of an antibiotic that prevents visible growth of bacteria called? Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC)"
"Penicillins are what class of antibiotics? β-lactams"
"Cephalosporins are what class of antibiotic? β-lactam"
"Carbapenems are what class of antibiotics? β-lactams"
"Monobactams such as Aztreonam are what class of antibiotics? β-lactams"
"What bacterial enzyme hydrolyzes the β-lactam ring of certain penicillins and cephalosporins (β-lactam's), rendering them inactive? β-lactamase"
"All β-lactam antibiotics are bactericidal, as cell walls of bacteria are essential for growth and development"
"β-lactam antibiotics inhibit what family of enzymes involved in cell wall synthesis? Penicillin binding protein transpeptidases"
"What gram staining group have porins in their wall? Gram negative, and thus can downregulate porins in β-lactam resistance"
"Gram-positive bacteria have a cell wall that is easily crossed by β-lactams and does not require presence of porins"
"Penicillinase is a type of β-lactamase that cleaves penicillins"
"Cephalosporinase is a type of β-lactamase that cleaves cephalosporins"
"Which gene of embryogenesis is involved in patterning along the anteroposterior axis and CNS development? Sonic hedgehog gene"
"Which gene of embryogenesis is produced at the base of limbs at the zone of polarizing activity? Sonic hedgehog gene"
"Mutation in the sonic hedgehog gene can cause holoprosencephaly::specific/head"
"Which genes of embryogenesis are produced at the apical ectodermal ridge (thickened ectoderm at distal end of each developing limb)? Wnt-7 and FGF genes::2"
"Which gene of embryogenesis is responsible for proper organization along the dorsal-ventral axis? Wnt-7"
"Which gene of embryogenesis is responsible for lengthening of limbs? FGF (stimulates mitosis of underlying mesoderm)"
"Which gene of embryogenesis is involved in segmental organization of the embryo in a craniocaudal direction? Homeobox (Hox) genes"
"Mutations in hox genes cause appendages to be placed in wrong locations"
"What do homeobox genes code for? Transcription factors"
"Which gene of embryogenesis malfunctioned if a patient develops syndactyly and/or polydactyly? Homeobox (hox) genes"
"Which gene of embryogenesis is affected by vitamin A? Homeobox (hox) genes"
"Within which week of embryogenesis does the bilaminar disc (epiblast, hypoblast) form? Week 2 (2 layers)"
"Within which week of embryogenesis does the trilaminar disc (endoderm, mesoderm, ectoderm) form? Week 3 (3 layers)"
"Within which week of embryogenesis does the neural tube close? Week 4"
"Which weeks of embryogenesis are most susceptible to teratogens? Weeks 3-8 (embryonic period)"
"In which week of embryogenesis does the heart begin to beat? Week 4 (4 weeks = 4 heart chambers)"
"In which week of embryogenesis do the upper/lower limb buds form? Week 4 (4 weeks = 4 limbs)"
"In which week of embryogenesis is fetal cardiac activity detectable by transvaginal ultrasound? Week 6"
"In which week of embryogenesis do fetal movements start? Week 8 (gait at week 8)"
"In which week of embryogenesis do genitalia begin to develop male/female characteristics? Week 10 (\Tenitalia\\")\""
"What is the embryonic origin of the lens of the eye? Surface ectoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the sweat and mammary glands? Surface ectoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the sensory organs of the ear? Surface ectoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the retina? Neural tube (neuroectoderm)"
"What is the embryonic origin of the odontoblasts and bones of the skull? Neural crest"
"What is the embryonic origin of the endocardial cushion and the aorticopulmonary septum? Neural crest"
"What is the embryonic origin of the myenteric (Auerbach) plexus? Neural crest"
"What is the embryonic origin of the muscle, bone, and connective tissue? Mesoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the ovaries/testis? Mesoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the blood and lymphatics? Mesoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the peritoneum (serous lining of cavities)? Mesoderm"
"VACTERL syndrome is due to mesodermal defects"
"What is the embryonic origin of the spleen and kidneys? Mesoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the gut tube epithelium and most major organs (e.g. lungs, liver, gallbladder, pancreas)? Endoderm"
"What is the embryonic origin of the parathyroid gland and parafollicular C cells? Endoderm*"
"What is the embryonic origin of the thymus? Endoderm"
"Which error in morphogenesis is characterized by absent organ due to absent primordial tissue? Agenesis"
"Which error in morphogenesis is characterized by absent organ despite the presence of primordial tissue? Aplasia"
"Which error in morphogenesis is characterized by incomplete organ development (primordial tissue present)? Hypoplasia"
"Which error in morphogenesis is characterized by secondary breakdown of previously normal tissue? Disruption (e.g. amniotic band syndrome)"
"Which error in morphogenesis is characterized by extrinsic disruption (after the embryonic period)? Deformation"
"Which error in morphogenesis is characterized by intrinsic disruption (during embryonic period)? Malformation"
"Which recreational drug causes low birth weight, preterm birth, IUGR, and placental abruption? Cocaine"
"What is the leading cause of low birth weight in developed countries? Smoking (nicotine, CO)"
"What compound in swordfish, shark, and king mackarel causes neurotoxicity in the fetus? Methylmercury"
"Vitamin A excess during pregnancy poses an extremely high risk for spontaneous abortion"
"Maternal diabetes may lead to Caudal regression syndrome in infants, which ranges from anal atresia to sirenomelia"
"In addition to caudal regression syndrome, maternal diabetes may result in congenital heart defects, neural tube defects, macrosomia, and neonatal hypoglycemia in newborns"
"What is the leading cause of intellectual disability in the US? Fetal alcohol syndrome"
"What is the mechanism by which fetal alcohol syndrome manifests? Failure of neuronal and glial cell migration"
"What teratogen causes a smooth philtrum and thin upper lip in newborns? Alcohol (fetal alcohol syndrome)"
"In its most severe form, fetal alcohol syndrome may cause heart-lung fistulas and holoprosencephaly"
"The maxillary artery is a derivative of the 1st aortic arch"
"The stapedial artery and hyoid artery are derivatives of the 2nd aortic arch"
"The common carotid artery and proximal part of the internal carotid artery are derivatives of the 3rd aortic arch"
"The true aortic arch::left and proximal part of the right subclavian artery::right are derivatives of the 4th aortic arch"
"The ductus arteriosus and proximal part of pulmonary arteries are derivatives of the 6th aortic arch"
"The branchial clefts/grooves are derivatives of ectoderm"
"The branchial arches are derivatives of mesoderm + neural crest"
"The branchial pouches are derivatives of endoderm"
"The 1st branchial cleft develops into the external auditory meatus"
"The 2nd - 4th branchial clefts form temporary cervical sinuses, which are obliterated"
"A persistent cervical sinus is a branchial cleft cyst within the lateral neck (anterior to SCM muscle)"
"Does a branchial cleft cyst move during swallowing? No (immobile)"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the maxillary process and mandibular process? 1st arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the malleus and incus? 1st arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the anterior belly of digastric? 1st arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the tensor tympani? 1st arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the muscles of mastication? 1st arch"
"What cranial nerve(s) are associated with the 1st branchial arch? V3::specific"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the stapes and stapedius m.? 2nd arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the posterior belly of digastric? 2nd arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the stylohyoid m. and stylohyoid ligament? 2nd arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the muscles of facial expression? 2nd arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the lesser horn of hyoid? 2nd arch"
"What cranial nerve(s) are associated with the 2nd branchial arch? VII"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the stylopharyngeus muscle? 3rd arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the greater horn of hyoid? 3rd arch"
"What cranial nerve(s) are associated with the 3rd branchial arch? IX"
"Which branchial arch/es gives rise to the arytenoid, cricoid, corniculate, cuneiform, and thyroid cartilages? 4th-6th arches"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the cricothyroid m.? 4th arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the levator veli palatini? 4th arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to most pharyngeal constrictors? 4th arch"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to all intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the cricothyroid? 6th arch"
"What cranial nerve(s) are associated with the 4th branchial arch? X (superior laryngeal br.)"
"What cranial nerve(s) are associated with the 6th branchial arch? X (recurrent laryngeal br.)"
"What branchial arch abnormality is characterized by cleft palate, airway obstruction, micrognathia, and glossoptosis? Pierre Robin sequence"
"What branchial arch abnormality is characterized by mandibular hypoplasia and facial abnormalities? Treacher Collins syndrome"
"Treacher Collins syndrome is due to neural crest::cell type dysfunction *bonus-failure of migration to which arch?"
"Which branchial pouch gives rise to the middle ear cavity, eustachian tube, and mastoid air cells? 1st branchial pouch (endoderm-lined structures of the ear)"
"Which branchial pouch gives rise to the epithelial lining of the palatine tonsil? 2nd branchial pouch"
"Which branchial pouch (wings) gives rise to the inferior parathyroids? 3rd pouch (dorsal wings)"
"Which branchial pouch (and wing) gives rise to the thymus? 3rd pouch (ventral wings)"
"Which branchial pouch (and wings) gives rise to the superior parathyroids? 4th pouch (dorsal wings)"
"Which branchial pouch (and wing) gives rise to the ultimobranchial body (parafollicular cells of thyroid)? 4th pouch (ventral wings)"
"What congenital abnormality arises due to failure of fusion of the two lateral palatine shelves? Cleft palate"
"What congenital abnormality arises due to failure of fusion of the maxillary and medial nasal processes? Cleft lip"
"What congenital abnormality arises due to failure of fusion of the lateral palatine shelf with the nasal septum and/or median palatine shelf? Cleft palate"
"What is the mode of inheritance of cleft lip and palate? Multifactorial"
"Peptidoglycan cell walls have repeating D-alanyl-D-alanine oligopeptides"
"Penicillin V is acid stable, meaning it can be given orally"
"Penicillin-binding proteins are bacterial enzymes involved in cell wall synthesis that are the target site for β-lactam antibiotics"
"Staph aureus is a β-lactamase producing bacteria resistant to penicillin"
"Anti-staph penicillins are anti-bacterials that have bulky R-groups that block access of β-lactam ring, making them penicillinase/β-lactamase resistant"
"What is the penicillinase susceptibility Anti-staph penicillins ? Resistant (bulky R-groups block access)"
"Anti-staph penicillins have activity against what organism? Staph aureus (except MRSA)"
"Anti-staph penicillins are ineffective against which bug and why? MRSA due to altered PBP target site"
"MRSA has an altered PBP target site and is thus resistant to anti-staph penicillins"
"Which cell wall synthesis inhibitors are used in the treatment of S. aureus folliculitis, abscesses? Anti-staph penicillins (nafcillin, oxacillin, dicloxacillin etc.); 1st gen cephalosporins::2"
"What is the treatment of MSSA S. aureus osteomyelitis? Anti-staph penicillins (nafcillin, oxacillin, dicloxacillin)"
"What is the treatment of MSSA Staph aureus right-sided endocarditis? Anti-staph penicillins (nafcillin, oxacillin, dicloxacillin, methicillin)"
"What is the susceptability of amoxicillin, ampicillin (aminopenicillins) to β-lactamase? Sensitive"
"Spectrum of amoxicillin, ampicillin (aminopenicillins)? Broad spectrum"
"What Aminopenicillin(s) work against H. influenzae? Amoxicillin, ampicillin"
"Which β-lactam is used to treat Listeria monocytogenes meningitis? Ampicillin"
"Ampicillin is an aminopenicillin that can be used to treat Enterococcus infection (E. faecalis, E. faecium)"
"What aminopenicillin has a long oral bioavailability? Amoxicillin"
"Amoxicillin is an aminopenicillin that should be used to treat Lyme disease in pregnant women and children"
"What is the treatment for Strep pneumoniae, H. influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis otitis media and sinusitis? Amoxicillin"
"Which Aminopenicillin is used as part of Helicobacter pylori triple therapy? Amoxicillin"
"Ampicillin treats meningitis produced by Listeria monocytogenes"
"Aminopenicillins (amoxicillin and ampicillin) can treat pneumonia caused by Strep pneumoniae and H. influenzae"
"Aminopenicillins (amoxicillin) can be used with clavulanic acid/clavulanate, a(n) β-lactamase inhibitor"
"Sulbactam and tazobactam are β-lactamase inhibitors that can be added with ampicillin or piperacillin to extend their activity"
"Anti-pseudomonal penicillins include piperacillin, ticarcillin and carbenicillin"
"Piperacillin and ticarcillin are antipseudomonal penicillins that are used with β-lactamase inhibitors to extend their activity"
"Prophylaxis antibiotic against encapsulated bacteria (S. pneumoniae, H. influenzae) in asplenic patients Amoxicillin"
"Aminopenicillins are a group of penicillins that can cause the severe side-effect, Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"Prophylaxis before dental procedures in patients at high risk for endocarditis Amoxicillin"
"Ampicillin is an aminopenicillin that can produce pseudomembranous colitis"
"Ampicillin is oral and poorly absorbed, so it can be found in high concentrations in the gut This predisposes to infection by what organism? Clostridioides difficile"
"Aminopenicillins::what drugs can cause a(n) maculopapular rash::specific if given in the setting of viral illnesses, such as EBV infectious mononucleosis"
"Patient suspected of having GAS pharyngitis given amoxicillin/ampicillin, and develops rash. This is most likely due to? Patient is infected with EBV (infectious mono), not Strep"
"Extended-spectrum penicillins used to treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections Piperacillin, ticarcillin, carbenicillin"
"What generation of cephalosporins can be used to treat UTIs caused by gram negative bacteria (PEcK)? 1st generation cephalosporins"
"1st generation cephalosporins can treat UTIs caused by what bacteria? Proteus, E. coli, Klebsiella - PEcK"
"Cefazolin is a cephalosporin that can be used for surgical antimicrobial prophylaxis to prevent S. aureus wound infections"
"What cephalosporin has a long half-life, making it useful for surgical prophylaxis? Cefazolin"
"What are the 1st generation cephalosporins that can be used to treat skin and soft tissue infections by Staph and Strep? Cephalexin, Cefazolin"
"What gram negative species are covered by 2nd generation cephalosporins? H. influenzae, Enterobacter aerogenes, Neisseria spp., Serratia marcescens (HENS) + PEcK"
"What is the drug of choice (DOC) for ampicillin-resistant H. influenzae? Ceftriaxone"
"What cephalosporin is used as prophylaxis before abdominal surgery? Cefoxitin (cephamycin group)"
"What is the drug of choice (DOC) for gonorrhea? Ceftriaxone"
"Ceftriaxone is the DOC for what STD? Gonorrhea"
"What cephalosporin can be used to treat disseminated Lyme disease? Ceftriaxone"
"Amoxicillin and cefuroxime can be used to treat Lyme disease in children and pregnant women (β-lactams)"
"What cephalosporins are first line for empiric treatment of meningitis? Ceftriaxone, Cefotaxime (3rd gen. cephalosporins)::2"
"Ceftriaxone is a cephalosporin that can be used to treat endocarditis by S. viridans and \HACEK\\" organisms\""
"What is the susceptibility of Cephalosporins to β-lactamases? Resistant"
"4th generation cephalosporins include cefepime"
"Which generations of cephalosporins have the largest spectrum of activity? 4th (cefepime) and 5th (ceftaroline)::2"
"What non-3rd generation group of cephalosporins can be used to treat bacterial meningitis? 4th gen. Cefepime"
"5th generation cephalosporins include Ceftaroline"
"What cephalosporin can bind the altered PBPs of MRSA? Ceftaroline"
"Disulfiram-like reaction is an adverse effect of what β-lactam antibiotics? Cephalosporins"
"Why should tetracyclines, fluoroquinolones be avoided with milk? Divalent cations will chelate the drug, decreasing absorption"
"Linezolid is a protein synthesis inhibitor that can treat nosocomial pneumonia caused by MRSA infections"
"What selection bias occurs when specifically selecting patients from a hospital? Berkson bias"
"What selection bias occurs when specifically selecting healthy people? Healthy worker effect"
"What type of bias is likely to occur when asking patients with disease versus patients without disease about prior risk factors? Recall bias"
"What type of bias occurs when patients change their behavior in response to their awareness of being observed? Hawthorne bias"
"What type of study uses subjects as their own controls? Crossover studies"
"What type of bias is caused by early detection being confused with increased survival? Lead-time bias"
"What type of bias is caused by increased detection of diseases (e.g. cancer) with a more benign course? Length-time bias"
"Which measure of dispersion measures the variability in a set of values? Standard deviation"
"Which measure of dispersion measures the variability of a set of sample means around the true population mean? Standard error"
"As the sample size increases, the standard error decreases"
"What is the equation for standard error? "
"Confidence intervals are a range of values within which the true mean of the population is expected to fall, with a specified probability (usually 95%)"
"How does the width of a 95% confidence interval change with a decreased sample size? Increased width"
"What type of non-normal distribution is suggestive of two different populations (e.g. slow vs. fast acetylators)? Bimodal"
"What type of error is stating that there is an effect when none exists? Type I (false-positive error)"
"What type of error is stating that there is NO effect when one DOES exists? Type II (false-negative error)"
"The probability of making a type 1 error is represented by alpha"
"The probability of making a type 2 error is represented by β"
"The statistical power of a study is calculated by 1 - β"
"The power of a study is increased with increased sample size"
"The power of a study is increased with increased expected effect size"
"The power of a study is increased with increased precision of measurement"
"What statistical test is used to check differences between the means of TWO groups? t-test"
"What statistical test is used to check differences between the means of THREE or more groups? Analysis of variance (ANOVA)"
"What statistical test is used to test the association between two or more categorical variables? Chi-squared"
"Trimethoprim can produce what teratogenic defects? Neural tube defects"
"Fidaxomicin is a macrocyclic antibiotic that works by inhibiting the sigma subunit of RNA polymerase"
"Which urinary antiseptic is used for uncomplicated UTIs in pregnancy? Nitrofurantoin"
"Nitrofurantoin is a urinary antiseptic that can trigger hemolysis in G6PD deficiency patients::disease"
"By what age does the moro reflex normally disappear? 3 months"
"By what age does the rooting reflex normally disappear? 4 months"
"By what age does the palmar reflex normally disappear? 6 months"
"By what age does the Babinski reflex normally disappear? 12 months"
"By what age can an infant lift their head prone? 1 month"
"By what age can an infant roll and sit up? 6 months"
"By what age can an infant stand up? 10 months"
"By what age range can an infant walk? 12 - 18 months"
"By what age can an infant pass objects from hand to hand? 6 months"
"By what age does an infant develop a pincer grasp? 10 months"
"By what age does an infant point to objects? 12 months"
"By what age does an infant develop a social smile? 2 months"
"By what age does an infant develop stranger anxiety? 6 months"
"By what age does an infant develop separation anxiety? 9 months"
"By what age does an infant orient to voice? What about orient to name? 4 months (voice), 9 months (name)"
"By what age does an infant develop object permanence? 9 months"
"By what age can an infant say \mama\\" and \\"dada\\"? 9 months\""
"How many cubes should a toddler be able to stack? Age (year) x 3"
"By what age can a toddler kick a ball? 24 months (2 years)"
"By what age can a toddler climb stairs? 18 months"
"By what age can a toddler feed themselves with fork/spoon? 20 months"
"By what age range does a toddler engage in parallel play? 24 - 36 months"
"By what age does a toddler move away from and return to their mother (rapprochement)? 24 months"
"By what age does a toddler develop an understanding of the concept of gender? 3-4 years"
"How many words can a two year old typically say? 200 (in 2-word sentences)"
"By what age can a preschooler copy lines/circles or draw stick figures? 4 years"
"By what age can a preschooler hop on one foot? 4 years"
"By what age can a preschooler comfortably spend part of the day away from mother? 3 years"
"By what age can a preschooler engage in cooperative play and have imaginary friends? 4 years"
"How many words can a 3 - 4 year old typically say? 1000 (in complete sentences)"
"Children should ride in rear-facing car seats until they are 2 years old"
"Children should ride in car seats with a harness until they are 4 years old"
"Children should use a booster seat until they are 8 years old (or until the seat belt fits properly)"
"Children < 12 years old should not ride in a seat with a front facing airbag"
"Changes in the elderly include increased suicide rate"
"Changes in the elderly include decreased muscle mass and increased fat"
"How does intelligence change in the elderly? No change"
"What type of disease prevention are vaccination and health promotion? Primary"
"What type of disease prevention is screening for disease (individual or community)? Secondary"
"What type of disease prevention is treatment to reduce complications from disease that will have long-term effects? Tertiary"
"What type of disease prevention is identifying patients at risk of unnecessary treatment? Quaternary"
"Clostridium perfringens is a spore-forming gram + bacilli that can be treated by what cell wall synthesis inhibitor? Penicillin What other drug is used in the primary treatment of Clostridium perfringens? Clindamycin"
"Leuprolide, Goserelin, and Buserelin are GnRH analogues"
"Leuprolide, Goserelin, and Buserelin are GnRH analogues with antagonist properties when used in a continuous fashion"
"What cancer may be treated with continuous leuprolide? Prostate Carcinoma"
"Ethinyl estradiol, DES, and mestranol are examples of estrogen analogs"
"Estrogen analogs increase the risk of endometrial cancer when given without progesterone"
"Estrogen analogs induce a(n) hyper-coagulable state"
"Clomiphene is an antagonist at estrogen receptors in the hypothalamus"
"Clomiphene results in increased release of FSH and LH from the pituitary"
"Clomiphene is used to treat infertility due to anovulation (e.g. PCOS)"
"Tamoxifen is an ER antagonist at breast and a(n) agonist at bone and uterus"
"Tamoxifen increases the risk of thromboembolic events and endometrial cancer"
"Tamoxifen is used to treat and prevent recurrence of ER/PR positive breast cancer"
"Raloxifene is an antagonist at breast and uterus and an agonist at bone"
"Does raloxifene increase risk for endometrial cancer? No (estrogen antagonist at uterus)"
"Raloxifene is primarily used to treat post-menopausal osteoporosis"
"What drug class do anastrozole and letrozole belong to? Aromatase inhibitors"
"What drug class does exemestane belong to? Aromatase inhibitor"
"Aromatase inhibitors are used to treat ER positive breast cancer in post-menopausal women"
"What drug class do levonorgestrel, etonogestrel, and megestrol belong to? Progestins"
"The presence of withdrawal bleeding with a(n) progestin challenge excludes anatomic defects (e.g. Asherman syndrome) and chronic anovulation without estrogen"
"What is the mechanism by which progestins, alone, act as a contraceptive? Thicken cervical mucus"
"What drug class do mifepristone and ulipristal belong to? Anti-progestins"
"What is the clinical use of ulipristal? Emergency contraception (anti-progestin)"
"What is the mechanism by which combined contraceptives (progestins + estradiol) act as a contraceptive? Inhibit ovulation"
"Combined contraceptives are contraindicated in patients > 35 years old who smoke"
"Combined contraceptives are contraindicated in patients with increased risk for cardiovascular disease"
"Combined contraceptives are contraindicated in patients who have migraines or breast or endometrial cancer"
"What is the mechanism of action of copper intrauterine devices? Local inflammatory response"
"What is the most effective emergency contraception? Copper intrauterine device"
"Terbutaline and ritodrine are β2-agonists that relax the uterus, thus decreasing contraction frequency during labor"
"Danazol is a synthetic androgen that acts as a(n) partial agonist at androgen receptors"
"Danazol is used to treat endometriosis and hereditary angioedema"
"What neurological side effect is associated with danazol? Pseudotumor cerebri"
"Side effects of danazol include weight gain, edema, acne, hirsutism, and masculinization (androgenic effects)"
"Side effects of danazol include decreased HDL and hepato-toxicity"
"Which sex steroid is used to stimulate anabolism to promote recovery after burn or injury? Testosterone"
"Exogeneous testosterone results in decreased intratesticular testosterone"
"Exogenous testosterone causes increased LDL and decreased HDL"
"Testosterone may promote premature closure of epiphyseal plates"
"What is the mechanism of action of finasteride? 5α-reductase inhibitor"
"Finasteride is used to treat BPH and male-pattern baldness"
"What is the mechanism of action of flutamide? Androgen receptor antagonist (competitive inhibitor)"
"Flutamide is used for prostate carcinoma"
"What steroidogenesis enzymes are inhibited by ketoconazole and spironolactone 17α-hydroxylase and cholesterol desmolase"
"Ketoconazole and spironolactone may be used to reduce androgenic symptoms in PCOS"
"Tamsulosin is a(n) selective α1A/D receptor antagonist used to treat BPH"
"Terazosin is a(n) non-selective α1 receptor antagonist used to treat BPH in patients with hypertension"
"PDE-5 inhibitors result in increased blood flow in the corpus cavernosum of the penis"
"What is the mechanism of action of minoxidil? Direct arteriolar vasodilator"
"Which calcineurin inhibitor binds to cyclophilin? Cyclosporine"
"Which calcineurin inhibitor binds to FK506 binding protein (FKBP)? Tacrolimus (FK506)"
"Cyclosporine and Tacrolimus are calcineurin inhibitors that block T cell activation by preventing IL-2 transcription"
"Are cyclosporine and tacrolimus nephrotoxic? Yes (highly)"
"Which calcineurin inhibitor is associated with gingival hyperplasia and hirsutism? Cyclosporine"
"In addition to nephrotoxicity, cyclosporine and tacrolimus may also have neuro-toxicity (especially Tacrolimus)"
"Which calcineurin inhibitor is associated with an even greater risk for diabetes vs the other calcineurin inhibitors? Tacrolimus"
"Sirolimus (rapamycin) is an mTOR inhibitor that binds FKBP"
"Sirolimus (rapamycin) is an immunosuppressant that blocks T cell activation via blocking a step in the IL-2 receptor signaling pathway"
"Is sirolimus (rapamycin) nephrotoxic? No"
"What hematologic adverse effect is associated with sirolimus (rapamycin)? Pancytopenia"
"Sirolimus (rapamycin) is an immunosuppressant that can be used in drug-eluting stents"
"Basiliximab is a monoclonal antibody that blocks the IL-2 receptor"
"Azathioprine is an immunosuppressant antimetabolite precursor of 6-mercaptopurine, which inhibits the enzyme PRPP amidotransferase"
"6-mercaptopurine (and thus azathioprine) are degraded by the enzyme xanthine oxidase"
"The enzyme PRPP amidotransferase is an important enzyme for de novo purine production, which converts PRPP to an intermediate used in the generation of IMP"
"Because the bone marrow is a rapidly proliferating population, use of 6-mercaptopurine (and thus azathioprine) is associated with Myelosuppression"
"What enzyme is blocked by the immunosuppressant mycophenolate mofetil? IMP dehydrogenase"
"Mycophenolate mofetil is associated with hyperglycemia"
"Aldesleukin is a recombinant form of IL-2 used to treat renal cell carcinoma and metastatic melanoma"
"Epoetin alfa is a recombinant form of erythropoietin used to treat anemias"
"Filgrastim is a recombinant form of G-CSF"
"Sargramostim is a recombinant form of GM-CSF"
"Romiplostim is a(n) thrombopoetin analog used to treat thrombocytopenia"
"Eltrombopag is a(n) thrombopoetin receptor agonist used to treat thrombocytopenia"
"Oprelvekin is a recombinant form of IL-11 used to treat thrombocytopenia"
"Alemtuzumab is primarily used to treat Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia and Multiple Sclerosis"
"Because Bevacizumab impairs sustained angiogenesis, this makes it especially useful for metastatic tumors"
"Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody against the EGF Receptor most commonly used to treat Stage IV colorectal cancer"
"Adalimumab is a monoclonal antibody against TNF-α"
"Certolizumab is a monoclonal antibody against TNF-α"
"Golimumab is a monoclonal antibody against TNF-α"
"Infliximab is a monoclonal antibody against TNF-α"
"Etanercept is a decoy soluble receptor that binds TNF-a"
"Daclizumab is a monoclonal antibody against CD25 (part of IL-2 receptor) that is used to treat relapsing multiple sclerosis"
"Natalizumab is a monoclonal antibody against α4-integrin used to treat Multiple Sclerosis and Crohn disease"
"Ustekinumab is a monoclonal antibody against IL-12/IL-23 used to treat psoriasis/psoriatic arthritis"
"Abciximab is a monoclonal antibody against the platelet GpIIb/IIIa cell surface receptor"
"Ranibizumab and Bevacizumab are monoclonal antibodies against Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) which prevents the growth of blood vessel"
"Which interleukin is primarily responsible for fever and acute inflammation? IL-1"
"Which immune cell(s) secretes IL-1? Macrophages"
"Which interleukin is primarily responsible for acute-phase reactant production? IL-6"
"Which immune cell(s) secretes IL-6? Macrophages"
"Which interleukin is a major chemotactic for neutrophils? IL-8"
"Which immune cell(s) secretes IL-8? Macrophages"
"Which interleukin is responsible for activating NK cells and inducing differentiation of T cells into Th1 cells? IL-12"
"Which immune cell(s) secretes IL-12? Macrophages"
"TNF-α is a cytokine released from macrophages that mediates cachexia and shock"
"Which cytokine is responsible for maintaining granulomas in TB infection? TNF-α (from macrophages)"
"Which interleukin is primarily responsible for stimulating T cells (all) and NK cells? IL-2"
"Which immune cells secrete IL-2? T cells (both Th1 and Th2)"
"Which interleukin is primarily responsible for stimulating growth and differentiation of bone marrow? IL-3 (similar to GM-CSF)"
"Which immune cell(s) secretes IL-3? T cells (both Th1 and Th2)"
"Which cytokine is primarily responsible for stimulating monocytes / macrophages to kill the microbes they ingest (macrophage-lymphocyte interaction)? IFN-γ"
"Which immune cells secretes IFN-γ? NK cells and Th1 cells::2"
"Which cytokine increases MHC expression and antigen presentation on all cells? IFN-γ"
"Which interleukin is primarily responsible for stimulating IgE production? IL-4"
"Which immune cell(s) secretes IL-4? Th2 cells"
"Which interleukin is primarily responsible for stimulating IgA production? IL-5"
"Which immune cell(s) secretes IL-5? Th2 cells"
"Which interleukin is primarily responsible for attenuating the inflammatory response? IL-10"
"Interferon-α and -β are glycoproteins synthesized by virus-infected cells that act locally on uninfected cells, \priming\\" them for viral defense\""
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CD28? T cells"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CXCR4? T cells (late HIV infection)"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CD40L? Helper T cells"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CD4 and CD25? Regulatory T cells"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CD19, CD20, and CD21? B cells"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein B7 (CD80/86)? APCs (B cells, macrophages, dendritic cells)"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CD16 and CD56? NK cells"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CD34? Hematopoietic stem cells"
"Which immune cell has the cell surface protein CCR5? Macrophages (early HIV infection)"
"Which blood transfusion reaction presents with urticaria, pruritus, hypotension, and shock? Allergic/anaphylactic reaction"
"Which blood transfusion reaction is a reaction against plasma proteins in transfused blood? Allergic/anaphylactic reaction"
"What type of hypersensitivity is allergic transfusion reaction? Type I HSR"
"Which blood transfusion reaction presents with fever, headaches, chills, and flushing? Febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reaction"
"Which blood transfusion reaction can be caused by host antibodies against donor HLA antigens and donor WBCs? Febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reaction"
"A febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reaction can exhibit what type of hypersensitivity reaction? Type II HSR"
"Which blood transfusion reaction presents with fever, hypotension, tachypnea, hemoglobinuria*, and jaundice? Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction"
"Which blood transfusion reaction is caused by host antibodies against donor ABO blood groups or foreign antigen on donor RBCs? Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction"
"What type of hypersensitivity is acute hemolytic transfusion reaction? Type II HSR"
"Which blood transfusion reaction presents with respiratory distress and noncardiogenic pulmonary edema? Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI)"
"Which blood transfusion reaction is caused by donor anti-leukocyte antibodies against recipient neutrophils and pulmonary endothelial cells? Transfusion-related acute lung injury (TRALI)"
"What ABO type is the universal recipient of RBCs? Type AB"
"What ABO type is the universal donor of plasma? Type AB"
"What ABO type is the universal donor of RBCs? Type O"
"What ABO type is the universal recipient of plasma? Type O"
"Which Rh type is the universal recipient of RBCs? Rh+"
"Which hemoglobin type migrates the furthest from the negative electrode on electrophoresis? HbA"
"Which hemoglobin type migrates the second furthest from the negative electrode on electrophoresis? HbF"
"Which hemoglobin type migrates the third furthest from the negative electrode on electrophoresis? HbS"
"Which hemoglobin type migrates the least far from the negative electrode on electrophoresis? HbC"
"Which anticoagulant has the greatest efficacy on factor Xa? LMWH"
"Which anticoagulant has the greatest efficacy on factor IIa (thrombin)? Heparin"
"Failure of aggregation with ristocetin assay occurs in von Willebrand disease and Bernard-Soulier syndrome"
"What pathologic RBC is seen in liver disease and abetalipoproteinemia (states of cholesterol dysregulation)? Acanthocytes"
"What pathologic RBC finding is seen in a peripheral smear with lead poisoning, sideroblastic anemia, and myelodysplastic syndrome? Basophilic stippling"
"Basophilic stippling in RBCs is a result of aggregation of residual ribosomes"
"What pathologic RBC is seen with bone marrow infiltration (e.g. myelofibrosis, thalassemias)? Dacrocyte (\tear drop cell\\")::2 names\""
"What pathologic RBC is seen with G6PD deficiency? Degmacyte (\bite cell\\")::2 names\""
"What pathologic RBC is seen with end-stage renal disease, pyruvate kinase deficiency, and liver disease? Echinocyte (\burr cell\\")::2 names\""
"What pathologic RBC is seen with hereditary elliptocytosis? Elliptocytes"
"What pathologic RBC finding is seen in bone marrow with sideroblastic anemia, lead poisoning, and myelodysplastic syndrome? Ringed sideroblasts"
"RBC pathologies associated with target cells may be remembered with the mnemonic \HALT\\": H: HbC disease A: Asplenia L: Liver disease T: Thalassemia\""
"Which non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemia presents with rapid-onset anemia within the 1st year of life? Diamond-Blackfan anemia (also known as congenital pure red cell aplasia or congenital hypoplastic anemia)"
"Diamond-Blackfan anemia is characterized by increased % HbF, but decreased total Hb"
"What anemia presents with short stature, craniofacial abnormalities, and triphalangeal thumbs? Diamond-Blackfan anemia"
"What glycolysis enzyme deficiency causes hemolytic anemia in a newborn? Pyruvate kinase deficiency"
"Pyruvate kinase deficiency results in increased levels of 2,3-BPG, which causes decreased Hb affinity for O2"
"How does TIBC change with pregnancy or OCP use? Increased"
"How does % saturation change with pregnancy or OCP use? Decreased"
"How does serum iron/ferritin change with pregnancy or OCP use? No change"
"Lead poisoning presents in children exposed to lead paint with mental detoriation"
"Acute intermittent porphyria is due to deficiency of the enzyme porphobilinogen deaminase"
"What is the mode of inheritance of acute intermittent porphyria? Autosomal dominant"
"The symptoms of acute intermittent porphyria may be remembered with the \5 P's\\": 1. Painful abdomen 2. Port wine-colored urine 3. Polyneuropathy 4. Psychological disturbances 5. Precipitated by drugs (e.g. cytochrome P-450 inducers)"
"Does acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) present with photosensitivity? No"
"Treatment for acute intermittent porphyria include heme and glucose, which inhibit ALA synthesis"
"Porphyria cutanea tarda is due to deficiency of the enzyme uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase"
"What is the mode of inheritance of porphyria cutanea tarda? Autosomal dominant"
"Which porphyrea presents with blistering cutaneous photosensitivity and hyperpigmentation? Porphyria cutanea tarda"
"What is the most common porphyria? Porphyria cutanea tarda"
"Porphyrea cutanea tarda is exacerbated by alcohol consumption"
"Iron poisoning causes cell death due to peroxidation of membrane lipids"
"Which blood transfusion therapy is used to increase Hb and O2 carrying capacity? Packed RBCs"
"Which blood transfusion therapy is used to increase platelet count? Platelets"
"Which blood transfusion therapy is used to increase coagulation factor levels? Fresh frozen plasma (FFP) or prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC)::2"
"Which blood transfusion therapy contains fibrinogen (factor I), factor VIII and XIII, vWF, and fibronectin? Cryoprecipitate"
"Blood transfusions may result in hypocalcemia due to citrate, which acts as a chelator"
"Blood transfusions may result in hyperkalemia due to RBC lysis in old blood units"
"How does libido change in elderly males? No change"
"Which major medical insurance plan has the cheapest monthly premiums and copays/deductibles? Health maintenance organization"
"Can patients with health maintenance organization (HMO) insurance plans see providers outside their network? No"
"Do patients with health maintenance organization (HMO) insurance plans require PCP referral for specialist visits? Yes"
"Which major medical insurance plan denies payment for any service that does not meet evidence-based guidelines? Health maintenance organization"
"Can patients with point of service (POS) insurance plans see providers outside their network? Yes*"
"Do patients with point of service (POS) insurance plans require PCP referral for specialist visits? Yes"
"Compared to other plans, point of service insurances plans have more expensive::cost monthly premiums"
"Which major medical insurance plan has the most expensive monthly premiums and copays/deductibles? Preferred provider organization"
"Can patients with preferred provider organization (PPO) insurance plans see providers outside their network? Yes"
"Do patients with preferred provider organization (PPO) insurance plans require PCP referral for specialist visits? No"
"Which major medical insurance plan limits patients to a network of doctors, specialists, and hospitals without requirement of referrals? Exclusive provider organization (EPO)"
"Do patients with exclusive provider organization (EPO) insurance plans require PCP referral for specialist visits? No"
"Which healthcare payment model involves physicians receiving a set amount per patient assigned to them per period of time? Capitation"
"Which healthcare payment model involves patients paying for each individual service at a pre-determined, discounted rate? Discounted fee-for-service"
"Which healthcare payment model involves patients paying for all expenses associated with a single incident of care with a single payment? Global payment"
"Medi-care is for: - patients > 65 years - patients with end-stage renal disease - patients with Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - patients < 65 with certain disabilities"
"Medi-caid is state/federal assistance for people with limited income/resources"
"Which part of medicare provides hospital insurance and home hospice care? Part A"
"Which part of medicare provides basic medical bills (e.g. doctor's fees, diagnostic testing)? Part B"
"Which part of medicare provides basic medical bills and hopistal insurance/home hospice care? Part C (Combo of A + B)"
"Which part of medicare provides insurance for prescription drugs? Part D"
"Hospice care is available for patients whose life expectancy is < 6 months::time"
"What is the focus of end-of-life care (hospice)? Patient comfort and pain relief"
"What is the most common cause of death in infants < 1 years old? Congenital malformation"
"What is the most common cause of death in people 1 - 44 years old? Unintentional injury"
"What is the most common cause of death in people 45 - 64 years old? Cancer"
"What is the most common cause of death in people > 65 years old? Heart disease"
"What is the most common cause of hospital readmission in patients with medicare? CHF"
"What is the most common cause of hospital readmission in patients with medicaid? Mood disorders"
"What is the most common cause of hospital readmission in patients with private insurance? Maintenance of chemo-/radiotherapy"
"What is the most common cause of hospital readmission in patients without insurance? Mood disorders"
"Which type of medical error analysis involves a retrospective approach, applied after failure to prevent recurrence? Root cause analysis"
"Which type of medical error analysis involves a forward-looking approach to prevent failure occurrence? Failure mode and effects analysis"
"What pharmokinetic term describes the theoretical volume occupied by total amount of drug in the body relative to its plasma concentration? Volume of distribution (Vd)"
"What formula is used to estimate volume of distribution (Vd)? "
"What is the relative volume of distribution (Vd) of a large/charged molecule? Low"
"What is the relative volume of distribution (Vd) of a plasma protein-bound molecule? Low"
"What is the relative volume of distribution (Vd) of a small hydrophilic molecule? Medium"
"What is the relative volume of distribution (Vd) of a small lipophilic molecule, especially if it can bind to tissue protein? High"
"What compartment is the majority of a drug with low Vd found in? Intravascular (e.g. plasma)"
"What compartment is the majority of a drug with medium Vd found in? Extracellular fluid"
"What compartment is the majority of a drug with high Vd found in? All tissues including fat"
"What formula is used to calculate clearance? \[CL = \frac{ \text{rate of drug elimination}  }{ \text{plasma drug concentration}  }= V_d \times K_e\]"
"What formula is used to calculate half-life in first-order elimination kinetics? \(t_{1/2} = \frac{  0.693 \times V_d  }{  CL } = \frac{  0.693}{ k_e }\) ::either works"
"In first-order kinetics, a drug infused at a constant rate takes 4 - 5 half-lives to reach steady state"
"What formula is used to calculate loading dose? \(LD = \frac{ C_p \times V_d}{F}\)"
"What formula is used to calculate maintenance dose? \(MD = \frac{  C_p \times CL \times \tau }{ F }\)"
"How should loading dose be adjusted in patients with renal or liver disease? Unchanged"
"How should maintenance dose be adjusted in patients with renal or liver disease? Decreased"
"What type of drug interaction is the effect of substance A and B together is equal to the sum of their individual products? Additive (e.g. aspirin and acetaminophen)"
"What type of drug interaction is the presence of A is required for the full effects of substance B? Permissive (e.g. cortisol on catecholamine responsiveness)"
"What type of drug interaction is the effect of substance A and B together being greater than the sum of their individual products? Synergistic (e.g. clopidogrel with aspirin)"
"What type of drug interaction is an acute decrease in response to a drug after initial/repeated administration? Tachyphylactic (e.g. nitrates, niacin, phenylephrine, LSD, MDMA)"
"What drug elimination is characterized by a constant amount of drug eliminated per unit time? Zero-order elimination"
"What drug elimination is characterized by a constant fraction of drug eliminated per unit time? First-order elimination"
"What drug elimination is characterized by an exponential curve? First-order elimination"
"Examples of drugs eliminated by zero-order elimination include phenytoin, ethanol, and aspirin (high concentrations)"
"Which type of drug, ionized or uncharged, is cleared more quickly? Ionized (trapped in urine)"
"What is the treatment for overdose of drugs that act as weak acids (e.g. phenobarbital, methotrexate, aspirin)? Bicarbonate (alkalinize urine)"
"What is the treatment for overdose of drugs that act as weak bases (e.g. amphetamines, TCAs)? Ammonium chloride (acidify urine)"
"What phase of drug metabolism includes reduction, oxidation, and hydrolysis? Phase I"
"Phase I drug metabolism usually yields slightly polar, water-soluble metabolites (often still active)"
"What phase of drug metabolism includes methylation, glucuronidation, acetylation, and sulfation (i.e. conjugation)? Phase II"
"Phase II drug metabolism usually yields very polar, water-soluble metabolites (inactive)"
"Patients who are slow acetylators::specific metabolization have increased side effects from certain drugs due to decreased rate of metabolism"
"Which phase of drug metabolism is lost first in geriatric patients? Phase I"
"Efficacy is the maximal effect a drug can produce"
"Vmax of a drug is indicative of efficacy::potency or efficacy"
"Compared to full agonists, partial agonists have less efficacy"
"Potency::Potency/Efficacy is the amount of drug needed for a given effect"
"EC50 of a drug is indicative of potency::potency or efficacy"
"What effect does a competitive antagonist have on potency? Decrease (curve shifts right)"
"What effect does a competitive antagonist have on efficacy? No change"
"What effect does a non-competitive antagonist have on potency? No change"
"What effect does a non-competitive antagonist have on efficacy? Decrease (curve shifts down)"
"What effect does a partial agonist have on efficacy? Decrease (curve shifts down)"
"The therapeutic index is calculated by TD50/ED50"
"Safer drugs have a(n) higher therapeutic index value"
"Drugs with a low therapeutic index may be remembered with the mnemonic \Warning! These Drugs are Lethal\\": W: Warfarin T: Theophylline D: Digoxin L: Lithium\""
"What toxin is found in pufferfish? Tetrodotoxin"
"Tetrodotoxin binds fast voltage-gated Na+ channels in cardiac/nerve tissue, preventing depolarization"
"Does tetrodotoxin cause or prevent depolarization? Prevent"
"What toxin is found in reef fish (e.g. Barracuda, snapper, and moray eel)? Ciguatoxin"
"Ciguatoxin opens Na+ channels, causing depolarization"
"Does ciguatoxin cause or prevent depolarization? Causes depolarization"
"What toxin presents with reversal of hot and cold sensations? Ciguatoxin"
"What toxin is found in spoiled dark-meat fish (e.g. tuna, mahi-mahi, mackerel, bonito)? Histamine (scombroid poisoning)"
"Scombroid poisoning mimics anaphylaxis"
"What is the treatment for scombroid poisoning? Antihistamines (also may use albuterol and epinephrine if needed)"
"What are the treatments for arsenic and mercury poisoning? Dimercaprol and succimer (aka DMSA)::2"
"What is the treatment for rapid reversal of rat poison ingestion? Fresh frozen plasma"
"Chronic alcohol use leads to induction of CYP-450"
"Acute alcohol use leads to inhibition of CYP-450"
"Griseofulvin is a(n) inducer of CYP-450"
"Rifampin is a(n) inducer of CYP-450"
"St. John's wort is a(n) inducer of CYP-450"
"Isoniazid is a(n) inhibitor of CYP-450"
"-Azoles (antifungals) are inhibitors of CYP-450"
"Macrolides are inhibitors of CYP-450"
"Sulfonamides are inhibitors of CYP-450"
"Ciprofloxacin is a(n) inhibitor of CYP-450"
"Metronidazole is a(n) inhibitor of CYP-450"
"Valproate is a(n) inhibitor of CYP-450"
"Phenytoin is a(n) inducer of CYP-450"
"Phenobarbital is a(n) inducer of CYP-450"
"Carbamazepine is a(n) inducer of CYP-450"
"Staphylococcus epidermidis is coagulase negative"
"Staph epidermidis is normal flora of the skin and thus can contaminate blood cultures"
"Characteristic petechial rash in meningococcemia indicates thrombocytopenia::platelet levels"
"IgA protease is a virulence factor used by Neisseria that allows bacteria to colonize and adhere to mucous membranes"
"SVC syndrome is commonly caused by malignancy, such as: - #1 mediastinal mass - #2 superior sulcus tumor"
"What is the etiology of laryngeal papillomatosis? HPV 6 and 11"
"Which part of the respiratory tract can HPV infect? Results in what? True vocal cords (producing laryngeal papillomatosis)"
"Which type of genome do papilloma viruses have? Circular::linear or circular"
"Treatment for Cutaneous Warts? Salicylic acid/Liquid Nitrogen"
"Cervical cancer malignancies in HPV are more common with what other disease? HIV/AIDS"
"TRH is released from the hypothalamus to stimulate TSH release from the anterior pituitary"
"Iodide is taken up into the thyroid follicular cell via Na+-iodide symporter"
"Thyroid peroxidase is the enzyme responsible for oxidation and organification of iodide"
"What amino acid plays a role in thyroid hormone synthesis? Tyrosine"
"What amino-acid side chains are located on thyroglobulin? Tyrosine"
"Thyroid Peroxidase is involved in the first part of T4 synthesis, specifically by catalyzing the addition of iodine to tyrosine residues on thyroglobulin"
"Thyroid Peroxidase is involved in the second part of T4 synthesis, generating T3 and T4 bound to thyroglobulin"
"Thyroglobulin is a tyrosine-rich protein precursor to thyroid hormone located in the follicular lumen"
"Thyroid hormones (T3/T4) play a role in development of the CNS"
"Thyroid hormone stimulates upregulation of B1 receptors in the heart"
"Thyroxin-binding globulin (TBG) is a plasma transport protein for T3/T4"
"What form of thyroid hormone is predominately produced by the thyroid gland? 90% T4"
"What thyroid hormone is more potent? T3 (10 x more potent than T4)"
"TSH increases which 2nd messenger? cAMP"
"T3/T4 hormones bind to intracellular::cellular location receptors"
"Hashimoto's Thyroiditis is an autoimmune disorder that initially causes a hyperthyroidism that then becomes a hypothyroidism"
"Cretinism is a form of congenital hypothyroidism that presents with developmental delay, protruding umbilicus, pot belly, and protruding tongue"
"What enzyme is involved in the synthesis of T4? Thyroid Peroxidase (Thyroperoxidase)"
"Methimazole is a thioamide that works by inhibiting Thyroid peroxidase ONLY"
"Propylthiouracil is a thioamide that is NOT contraindicated in the first trimester of pregnancy"
"Propylthiouracil and methimazole are thionamides used to treat hyperthyroidism"
"Propylthiouracil is a thioamide indicated in the treatment of thyroid storm (thyrotoxicosis)"
"Which thioamide is contraindicated in the first trimester of pregnancy? Methimazole, so need to use PTU"
"Propylthiouracil (PTU) is a thyroid medication that can produce an ANCA-associated vasculitis"
"Which thyroid medications are associated with drug-induced lupus? Propylthiouracil (PTU), methimazole"
"Which thyroid medications are associated with aplastic anemia? Propylthiouracil (PTU) and methimazole"
"Propylthiouracil (PTU) is a thioamide associated with severe hepatotoxicity"
"Jod-Basedow phenomenon is a condition where a patient develops thyrotoxicosis after a period of being administered Iodine"
"Jod-Basedow phenomenon occurs when a patient being given high dose potassium iodide (Lugol's solution) develops thyrotoxicosis as an adverse effect"
"Radioactive (I131) Iodine is a last resort treatment of Hyperthyroidism / Graves' disease that works by ablating the Thyroid"
"Patients who undergo radioactive iodine (I131) treatment can develop hypothyroidism"
"β-Blockers are used to treat Thyrotoxicosis (thyroid storm):: endocrine condition by blocking the hyperadrenergic symptoms"
"Amiodarone is a class III anti-arrhythmic that can produce hyper or hypothyroidism"
"Lithium is a mood stabilizer associated with development of hypothyroidism"
"Staph epidermidis is a coagulase-negative Staph that has the ability to synthesize extracellular polysaccharide matrix (biofilm)"
"What types of HPV encode for the proteins E6 and E7? High Risk (HPV 16, 18, 31, 33)"
"Low serum Ca2+ levels will increase PTH levels in the blood stream"
"The parathyroid glands have Ca2+ sensing (CaSR) receptors that negatively regulate secretion of PTH"
"Chronic PTH exposure stimulates osteoblasts to express as well as secrete RANKL"
"RANKL binds to RANK on Osteoclast precursors / Osteoclast surfaces causing activation of these cells"
"Intermittent PTH stimulates maturation of osteoblasts, thus increasing bone formation"
"PTH increases Ca2+ reabsorption by the kidney"
"PTH increases phosphate excretion by the kidney"
"PTH increases production of Calcitriol activity by stimulating 1-alpha-hydroxylase in the kidney"
"Teriparatide is a(n) PTH analog used to treat osteoporosis, wherein the goal is to increase bone density and formation"
"Teriparatide decreases fractures in patients with osteoporosis"
"Does Teriparatide have the exact same activity as endogenous PTH? Yes"
"Vitamin D3 is also known as cholecalciferol"
"Vitamin D3 is obtained via dairy products and UVB radiation"
"Vitamin D2 is also known as ergocalciferol"
"Vitamin D2 is obtained via plants"
"25-hydroxylase converts Vitamin D3 into 25-hydroxyvitamin D (calcidiol)"
"1-alpha-hydroxylase converts 25-hydroxyvitamin D (calcidiol) into 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (aka calcitriol)"
"Calcitriol stimulates increased reabsorption of Ca2+ and reabsorption of phosphate by the kidney"
"Calcitriol increases absorption of Ca2+ and absorption of phosphate in the intestine"
"Calcitriol increases Ca2+ and phosphate release into the bloodstream by stimulating osteoblasts to activate osteoclasts"
"Calcitriol inhibits PTH production by the parathyroid gland"
"Calcitriol stimulates maturation of osteoblasts, thereby increasing bone formation"
"Both Calcitriol and Vitamin D can be used to prophylactically treat and mitigate symptoms of osteoporosis"
"Vitamin D deficiency can cause rickets in children and osteomalacia in adults"
"Patients with renal insufficiency can be given Calcitriol to correct their hypocalcemia"
"Vitamin D inhibits proliferation of keratinocytes which can be found in the epidermis"
"Topical Vitamin D can be used as an adjunct therapy for patients with Psoriasis"
"Calcitriol is useful in the long term management of hypocalcemia due to chronic disorders"
"Vitamin D2/D3 are less useful than Calcitriol in the treatment of hypocalcemia due to hypoparathyroidism"
"Patients who have undergone Thyroid surgery can sometimes manifest with symptoms of hypoparathyroidism and hypocalcemia"
"Hypocalcemia can lead to tetany and in severe cases lead to seizures"
"Teriparatide and Vitamin D therapy can cause hypercalcemia::adverse effect"
"Cinacalcet is an allosteric activator of the Ca2+ sensing (CaSR) receptor on the Parathyroid Gland"
"Cinacalcet is used to treat hypercalcemia secondary to hyperparathyroidism"
"Sevelamer is a compound that binds free phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract"
"Sevelamer is used to treat hyperphosphatemia due to chronic kidney disease"
"S. bovis can produce subacute endocarditis"
"What procedure should be performed with S. bovis infection? Colonoscopy (suspect colon cancer)"
"McCune-Albright syndrome is inherited in a(n) non-inherited - somatic mutation fashion"
"Proteasomal inhibitors (-zomibs::suffix) are antineoplastics that inhibit cell cycle progression at the G2-M phase"
"Carfilzomib and Bortezomib are examples of antineoplastics that work by inhibiting the proteasome"
"Ubiquitin-ation of proteins recruits the proteasome to degrade them"
"Proteasomal inhibitors work best in cancers that mark pro-apoptotic proteins to be targeted for degradation too quickly"
"Proteasomal inhibitors are used to treat multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma"
"Pembrolizumab is an immunostimulant that works by targeting the PD-1 receptor"
"The PD1 receptor is normally involved in the maintenance of peripheral immunologic tolerance"
"Tumor cells upregulate PD-L1 to evade anti-tumor T-cells"
"Panobinostat and Vorinostat are antineoplastics that are nonselective Histone Deacetylase [HDAC] Inhibitors"
"In epigenetics, when a histone is acetylated, the histone unwinds the DNA to make it available for transcription"
"In epigenetics, when a histone is deacetylated by an HDAC (an \eraser\\")"
"HDAC inhibitors prevent histones from being deacetylated resulting in genes such as tumor suppressors being transcribed"
"Vorinostat is used to treat cutaneous T cell lymphoma"
"Panobinostat is used to treat multiple myeloma that is refractory to bortezomib + dexamethasone"
"The BCG vaccine is primarily used to prevent tuberculosis, as well as an alternative treatment for superficial bladder cancer"
"The main side effect of the BCG vaccine is that it can cause keloids at the site of the injection"
"The BCG vaccine can cause a false positive to a(n) tuberculin test"
"Because Pembrolizumab targets a peripheral tolerance mechanism, patients taking this drug can develop autoimmune disorders of endocrine organs"
"In the treatment of Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) prevents differentiation from being halted at the promyelocyte stage"
"All-trans retinoic acid can be used to treat the measles virus"
"Adverse effects of sirolimus (rapamycin) include pancytopenia and insulin resistance"
"Sirolimus is primarily used to treat transplant rejection prophylaxis in patients who have received a(n) kidney transplant"
"Sirolimus works by binding FKBP, which inhibits the mTOR::specific signal signalling complex involved in cell growth"
"mTOR is a(n) protooncogene::protooncogene or tumorsuppressor?"
"Retinoids (like isoretinoin / all-Trans Retinoic Acid) are derivatives of Vitamin A"
"Selection bias is an error introduced in recruiting participants that occurs due to a(n) nonrandom sampling or treatment allocation of subjects"
"Selection bias, most commonly a type of sampling bias, can be reduced via concealment"
"Recall bias is an error introduced while performing the study in which the awareness of the disorder alters recall by the subjects"
"Recall bias can be reduced by decreasing time from exposure to follow-up"
"Measurement bias is an error introduced while performing the study where information is gathered in a(n) systemically distorted manner"
"Measurement bias can be reduced by: - using a(n) placebo group - using objective and standardized methods of data collection"
"Procedure bias is an error introduced in performing the study that results from different groups being treated differently"
"Measurement Bias and Procedure Bias differ in that the former is due to a(n) flawed procedure and the latter is due to a procedure applied in a(n) differential manner"
"Observer-Expectancy Bias is an error introduced performing the study where the researchers belief in the efficacy of a treatment changes the outcome of treatment"
"Procedure bias can be reduced by blinding and minimizing differences in groups (besides variable of intervention)"
"Confounding bias occurs when the exposure-disease relationship is muddled by the effect of an extraneous factor that is associated with both exposure and disease and is NOT on the causal pathway"
"Confounding Bias can be reduced by RANDOMIZATION, but other important interventions include: - Matching / Stratification of exposure groups - crossover studies - restriction of characteristics - multiple / repeated studies"
"Lead-time bias can be reduced by measuring \back-end\\" survival\""
"Publication bias (\the file drawer effect\\") is a systematic error of meta-analysis that results from only using published studies\""
"Assembly Bias occurs when groups of exposed and non-exposed patients::patients assembled for prognostic study differ in ways other than prognostic factors under study"
"Assembly Bias is a type of selection bias instead of a confounding bias because it occurs during the selection process of subjects"
"Migration (attrition) bias is a form of selection bias that occurs when patients drop out of the study prematurely"
"Migration bias can be remedied with the 5 and 20 rule or the Best / Worst Case analysis"
"Generalizability bias is a form of selection bias that is related to the selective referral of patients to tertiary medical centers"
"Why does Generalizability bias matter? Because patients in tertiary centers are usually highly selected"
"Exclusion criteria can result in External Validity being compromised if too strict, maximizing Internal Validity"
"Randomization is critical in preventing confounding bias"
"Randomization can be done in a blocked manner where randomization is done within blocks of 4-8 subjects in order to ensure equal balance in number of treatment and control subjects throughout the study"
"Randomization can be done in a stratified manner where randomization is done within strata in order to ensure equal balance in number of treatment and control subjects throughout the study"
"Are Randomization and Concealment the same? nah bruh"
"Concealment is critical in preventing selection bias"
"Blinding (the cardinal feature of RCTs) is critical in reducing measurement bias"
"Using a placebo allows you to blind the interventions, helping reduce measurement bias"
"Survival Cohort Bias is a special case of assembly bias where as survival cohort (available patients) is used instead of a(n) true inception cohort"
"A survival cohort describes the past history of prevalent cases, and thus introduces bias into the results (this is seen in Retrospective Case Series)"
"The Case Fatality Rate = (# of individuals who die from disease during T0->T+1) / (# of individuals with disease at t0)"
"The CFR is a special type of cumulative incidence rate that measures risk of death among those individuals with the disease"
"Is the CFR the same as the Mortality Rate? No"
"The Mortality Rate = (# of individuals who die from disease during T0->T+1) / (total population time at risk during T0->T1)"
"The Mortality Rate measures the speed of death due to a specific disease in a population at risk"
"Probability is the risk of having an event where P=Odds/1+Odds"
"Where Probability = A/B, A= # of events and B = total # at risk"
"Is probability a proportion or a ratio? Proportion"
"Odds are the ratio of the probability of having an event to the probability of not having"
"How big is the difference between probability and odds when the value of probability is small (<10%)? Minimal Difference"
"Converting Probability (P) to Odds (O), O = (P)/(1-P)"
"In a Ratio of A/B, is A part of B? No"
"In a Proportion of A/B, is A part of B? Yes"
"A rate is a special type of proportion where the numerator is the # of affected individuals in a given time period and the denominator is the population at risk over the same time period"
"With increased prevalence, how are PPV and NPV changed? PPV increases and NPV decreases"
"How are prevalence and pretest probability related? They are similar"
"For a short duration disease, how are prevalence and incidence related? Prevalence ~ Incidence"
"For a chronic disease, how are prevalence and incidence related? Prevalence > Incidence"
"If a treatment for a particular disease is developed the prolongs life but doesn't result in a cure... (options = incidence, prevalence, CFR, Mortality rate) - Incidence is not affected - Prevalence increases, because affected live longer - CFR would depend on the stage of disease, but in general would decrease since less are likely to die during given time period - Mortality Rate in general would decrease since you would likely have less deaths in a given time period"
"How are prevalence and incidence related? Prevalence = Incidence X Duration"
"An incidence rate is a special type of proportion that includes a given time range and a population at risk"
"When do you use a CIR? - when there is a(n) fixed or closed population that is starting at a common point in time - when an outcome can occur only once - and when when disease event rates are relatively stable over time"
"CIR = (# of new cases for a specific time period)/(# of people at risk for same time period) that gives you a measure of average risk"
"CIR has a range from 0-1 and must be accompanied by a(n) specific time period to have any meaningful interpretation"
"An Attack Rate is a special type of CIR that is the (# of people affected)/(# of people at risk at beginning of time period)"
"An incidence density rate (IDR) measures the instanteous rate of speed of the disease in a population at a given point in time"
"IDR = (# of new cases)/(sum of time periods for all disease free individuals at risk)"
"Is IDR a dynamic measure? Yes"
"An IDR of 0 implies that a disease is not occurring in a population whereas an IDR of infinity implies instantaneous, universal effect on population"
"What endogenous protein that binds to RANKL released by Osteoblasts does Denosumab act like? Osteoprotegerin"
"Denosumab prevents osteoclast activation by binding RANKL expressed on osteoblasts"
"As an antineoplastic, Denosumab can be used for Giant Cell Tumor of Bone as well as metastases to bone"
"In the treatment of Giant Cell Tumor Of Bone, Denosumab works by binding RANKL expressed on multinucleated Giant Cells"
"Because RANKL is also expressed on T Helper cells, a side effect of Denosumab treatment is immunosuppression"
"Because denosumab impairs osteoclast activity (like bisphosphonates), these drugs can cause osteonecrosis of the jaw"
"All biologics (ex monoclonal antibodies) carry the risk of eliciting a(n) infusion reaction within the first hour of administration"
"Is the heart failure associated with Trastuzumab reversible with treatment discontinuation? Yes"
"Trastuzumab is an IgG monoclonal antibody against the Her2/Neu receptor"
"Traztusumab works by binding Her2/Neu, preventing it from dimerizing with EGFR"
"Trastuzumab is indicated for Her2-positive cancers, the most important example being breast cancer"
"Busulfan's use as an antineoplastic comes from its ability to be a(n) alkylating agent"
"Busulfan mediated alkylation of DNA leads to cross-linking of strands, which DNA repair mechanisms cannot fix"
"\Busulfan Lung\\" is the term for the fibrotic pattern of lung damage which can be caused by Busulfan\""
"Busulfan chemotherapy is associated with a(n) hyperpigmentation::skin reaction"
"Busulfan is used to treat Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia"
"Prior to a bone marrow transplant, Busulfan can be used as a(n) conditioning agent"
"Nitrosureas are chemotherapeutics which can be recognized by the suffixes -mustine and -zotocin"
"Nitrosureas work by crosslinking DNA"
"Nitrosureas requires bioactivation by cytochrome p450 enzymes to be effective"
"Nitrosureas are able to penetrate the Blood Brain Barrier, making them especially useful for tumors of the Central Nervous System"
"-Phosphamide chemotherapeutics are alkylating agents that work by crosslinking DNA strands"
"Cyclophosphamide must be bioactivated by the liver in order to function"
"Cyclophosphamide is selective for cells that express low / no levels of Aldehyde Dehydrogenase"
"In the process of bioactivating -phosphamides, a highly cytotoxic side product known as Acrolein is released which can cause Hemorrhagic Cystititis"
"To treat the Hemorrhagic Cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide, the compound MESNA can be administered"
"Cyclophosphamide and Ifosfamide are especially suited for neoplasias of immune cells as well as solid malignancies"
"Cyclophosphamide can cause a congenital syndrome (remember with the mnemonic conGEAL) - congenital: - Growth Restriction - Ear and facial abnormalities - Absence of digits - Limb hypoplasia"
"Cyclophosphamide can stimulate ADH secretion, resulting in a euvolemic hyponatremia"
"As a result of Cyclophosphamide metabolites accumulating in the bladder, it is associated with transitional cell carcinoma"
"Ifosfamide can cause a generalized reabsorptive defect in the proximal convoluted tubule"
"Imatinib is the gold standard for patients with Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia that have a(n) Bcr-Abl fusion receptor tyrosine kinase"
"Imatinib can inhibit the receptor tyrosine kinase c-Kit, making it useful for GI Stromal Tumors (GIST)"
"Patients being treated with Imatinib can experience side effects of fluid retention"
"Imatinib specifically inhibits the Bcr-Abl fusion protein by blocking the Abl portion"
"Imatinib is a(n) competitive inhibitor of the Bcr-Abl fusion protein"
"Tyrosine Kinase inhibitors work by targeting downstream signaling pathways involved in growth - the most important being: - PI3K/Akt leads to increased Bcl-2 expression (anti-apoptosis) - JAK/STAT which would've led to increased cell proliferation - Ras/MAPK which would've led to increased cell growth - Src/FAK which would've led to increased cell motility (invasion) and decreased cell adhesion (migration)"
"Ruxolitinib is a(n) JAK1/2 inhibitor"
"Ruxolitinib is used to treat chronic myeloproliferative disorders that have JAK2 mutations including myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera"
"In patients taking ruxolitinib, an important side effect is hepatotoxicity"
"Patients taking Ruxolitinib can experience myelosuppression, which is associated with herpesviridae family reactivation (specific family of viruses)"
"Erlotinib is a(n) EGF-R inhibitor used to treat NSCLC and Pancreatic cancer"
"Because the EGF receptor is expressed at the epidermis, Patients taking Erlotinib are at risk of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome"
"Sorafenib and Sunitinib inhibit the VEGF RTK"
"Sorafenib has the ability to induce autophagy, which helps suppress tumor growth but can also cause drug resistance"
"Because sorafenib targets VEGF, areas that are highly vascularized will be affected such as the skin and the kidney"
"Vemurafenib is an inhibitor of the BRAF oncogene"
"Vemurafenib is used to treat metastatic melanoma that has a BRAF V600E or V600K::2 mutations # mutation"
"Hydroxyurea is an antimetabolite that inhibits pyrimidine synthesis by inhibiting Ribonucleotide Reductase, thus blocking Thymidine synthesis"
"In patients with Sickle Cell Anemia, Hydroxyurea is used prophylactically to reduce veno-occlusive crises"
"Patients taking hydroxyurea can develop a(n) megaloblastic anemia"
"Hydroxyurea is used in the treatment of hematological malignancies, particularly myeloproliferative disorders"
"Besides being indicated for all solid tumors bearing a PD-L1 mutation, Pembrolizumab is indicated for refractory classical Hodgkins Lymphoma"
"Topoisomerase I inhibitors are antineoplastic agents (commonly with the suffix -otecan) that work by preventing cell cycle progression at the S and G2 phases"
"Irinotecan, a(n) Topoisomerase I inhibitor, is used to treat Colon Cancer"
"Topotecan, a Topoisomerase I inhibitor, is used to treat cancers of the female reproductive system and small cell lung cancer"
"Topoisomerase I inhibitors commonly manifest with side effects of gastrointestinal distress and myelosuppression"
"Antineoplastic topoisomerase II inhibitors, with the suffix -posides, prevent cell cycle progression at the S and G2 phases"
"-Posides (aka Topoisomerase II inhibitors) act as antineoplastics by preventing helicase unwinding"
"-Posides (Topoisomerase II inhibitor antineoplastics) are used to treat solid tumors, particularly testicular cancer and small cell lung cancer"
"Side effects of Topoisomerase II inhibitors include alopecia and myelosuppression"
"Platinum based antineoplastics (suffix -platin) work by forming intrastrand adducts"
"Platinum based antineoplastics are indicated for various carcinomas that affect the Genitourinary system, Reproductive system, and Respiratory system"
"Platinum based antineoplastics can cause side effects which might make ya say NOPE - Nephrotoxicity - Ototoxicity - Peripheral Neuropathy - Emesis"
"To prevent cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity, you can administer Amifostine or IV Saline diuresis"
"Vinca Alkaloids are antineoplastics that prevent cell cycle progression at the M phase"
"Vinca Alkaloids bind B-Tubulin, inhibiting the assembly of microtubules"
"Vinca Alkaloids are particularly useful for Lymphomas, in particular vinblastine for Hodgkin lymphoma and vincristine for non-Hodgkin lymphoma"
"As two classes of antineoplastic agents that modulate microtubule structure, the distinction lies in that vinca-alkaloids prevent microtubule assembly whereas taxanes prevent microtubule disassembly"
"Vinca alkaloids can induce a(n) paralytic ileus, resulting in constipation"
"Vincristine can cause a(n) peripheral sensory neuropathy"
"Taxanes (-taxel) are antineoplastics that prevent cell cycle progression at the M-Phase"
"Taxanes work by preventing the disassembly of microtubules"
"Taxanes can cause a peripheral sensory neuropathy as well as induce hypersensitivity reactions"
"Taxanes are used to treat for breast and ovarian carcinomas"
"What is the suffix for small molecule kinase inhibitors? -nib"
"What is the suffix for tyrosine kinase inhibitors? -tinib"
"Patients taking Erlotinib can get a(n) papulopustular acneiform rash"
"Gut mucosa expresses EGFR, resulting in Erlotinib causing diarrhea as a side effect"
"The abbreviation RTK stands for Receptor Tyrosine Kinase"
"VEGF RTK inhibitors can cause hyperkeratosis"
"Because Sorafenib and Sunitinib target the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor receptor, patients are at increased risk of hemorrhage"
"Vinca Alkaloids affect rapidly dividing cells like those of the hair follicle, resulting in alopecia"
"Taxane can affect rapidly dividing cells like follicular hair cells, resulting in alopecia"
"Platinum based agents, especially carboplatin, can result in myelosuppression"
"A common side effect of all alkylating agents is myelosuppression"
"A general rule of chemotherapeutic side effects is that they will affect all rapidly dividing cells"
"Cyclophosphamide can target germ cells, resulting in infertility and premature menopause"
"Because Her2/Neu is expressed on the Heart, Trastuzumab can cause Heart failure"
"Basiliximab is used prophylactically to reduce transplant rejection in patients who have received kidneys"
"Patients taking Basiliximab can experience side effects of edema, hypertension, and tremor"
"Dupilumab is a monoclonal antibody against the IL4 receptor alpha subunit"
"Dupilumab is indicated for atopic dermatitis"
"The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) extends from the lateral femoral condyle to the anterior tibia"
"The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) extends from the medial femoral condyle to the posterior tibia"
"A knee exam should be performed with the patient in the supine position"
"The anterior drawer test and lachman test are used to test for ACL injury"
"The anterior drawer test is performed with the knee at a(n) 90 degree angle to test for ACL injury"
"A positive anterior drawer sign demonstrates increased anterior gliding of the tibia"
"The Lachman test is similar to the anterior drawer test, but the knee is at a(n) 30 degree angle"
"The posterior drawer test is performed with the knee at a(n) 90 degree angle to test for PCL injury"
"A positive posterior drawer sign shows increased posterior gliding of the tibia"
"The Valgus test is most commonly used to identify MCL injury"
"The Valgus test is performed with the knee at a(n) 30 degree angle while a(n) lateral (valgus) force is applied"
"An abnormal Valgus test shows increased medial space widening of the tibia"
"The Varus test is used to identify LCL injury"
"The Varus test is performed with the knee at a(n) 30 degree angle while a(n) medial (varus) force is applied"
"An abnormal Varus test shows increased lateral space widening of the tibia"
"The McMurray test is used to identify injury to the meniscus (of the knee)"
"The McMurray test is performed by 1) full flexion of the knee 2) followed by extension of the knee with rotation of the tibia and pressure on the opposite side of the knee you want to test"
"In a positive McMurray test, pain and \popping\\" on external rotation indicates a(n) medial meniscus tear\""
"In a positive McMurray test, pain and \popping\\" on internal rotation indicates a(n) lateral meniscal tear\""
"A positive McMurray test is characterized by pain and \popping\\" on extension (with rotation and side of the knee pressure)\""
"A(n) greenstick fracture is a(n) incomplete fracture through the width of the bone following bending stress"
"Greenstick fractures and torus fractures are both common fractures in pediatric populations"
"A(n) torus fracture occurs when axial force is applied to immature bone, leading to a(n) simple buckle fracture of the cortex"
"Actinomycin D (aka Dactinomycin) is an antineoplastic antibiotic that works by preventing transcription through the process of DNA intercalation"
"Dactinomycin is used to treat for numerous malignancies that affect the pediatric age group"
"Dactinomycin affects all populations of rapidly growing cells, resulting in side effects of myelosuppression (bone marrow) and alopecia (hair follicle cells)"
"Anthracyclines can cause Dilated Cardiomyopathy which can be minimized by preparing the drug in Liposomal form"
"Anthracycline associated Dilated Cardiomyopathy can be prevented with dexrazoxane, a(n) iron chelating agent"
"PEGylation of liposomal Doxorubicin can also result in Hand-Foot Syndrome"
"PEGylated Liposomal Doxorubicin is useful for the treatment of Kaposi Sarcoma"
"Doxorubicin can cause a(n) neutropenic enterocolitis, a life-threatening acute transmural inflammation of the cecum"
"Anthracyclines are used to treat white blood cell neoplasias"
"Bleomycin is an antineoplastic antibiotic indicated for lymphoma as well as cancers of the reproductive system"
"Bleomycin can have severe effects at the lung, which over time can cause pulmonary fibrosis"
"Patients taking Bleomycin can experience hyperpigmentation of the skin"
"Neoplasia is new tissue growth which has three characteristics that distinguish it from hyperplasia and repair: 1 - It is unregulated 2 - It is irreversible 3 - Generally speaking, it is monoclonal*"
"Bleomycin acts as an antineoplastic by inducing single and double strand breaks in DNA"
"Bleomycin and Anthracyclines generate free radicals by generating a pseudoenzyme using bound iron ions to react with oxygen"
"In women, clonality was historically determined by analysis of Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase isoforms"
"Cytarabine and Gemcitabine are examples of pyrimidine nucleoside analogs that block cell cycle progression at S phase"
"The normal ratio of active G6PD isoforms in a sample of any woman's tissue is 1:1"
"While neoplasia is monoclonal, hyperplasia is polyclonal"
"Clonality can be determined by analysis of androgen receptor isoforms"
"Clonality of B lymphocytes can be determined by analysis of the Immunoglobulin Light Chain phenotype"
"Each B cell produces light chains that are either kappa or lambda"
"The normal kappa to lambda light chain ratio in a tissue sample is 3:1"
"In Lymphoma, which is monoclonal, the kappa to lambda light chain ratio increases to > 6:1 or is inverted"
"Which of the following types of tumors remain localized and do not metastasize? Benign"
"Which of the following types of tumors invade locally and have the potential to metastasize? Malignant"
"Tumors of Glandular epithelium are known as adenomas when benign and adenocarcinomas when malignant"
"Pyrimidine nucleoside analogs (ex Cytarabine and Gemcitabine) work by inhibiting DNA polymerase A/B"
"Epithelial tumors that grow exophytically are known as papillomas when benign and papillary carcinoma when malignant"
"Tumors of Fat are known as lipomas when benign and liposarcomas when malignant"
"Lymphomas are malignancies of mature leukocytes, whereas Leukemias are malignancies of immature leukocytes"
"Tumors of Blood Vessels are known as Hemangiomas when benign and Angiosarcomas when malignant"
"Because Cytarabine targets lymphocytes, it is indicated for leukemias as well as non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma"
"All antineoplastic nucleoside analogs (including cladribine, cytarabine, gemcitabine) can cause myelosuppression"
"In the United States, Cancer is the second leading cause of death"
"While cancer begins as a single mutated cell, approximately 30 divisions occur before the average tumor presents with the earliest clinical symptoms"
"Pap smears are used to detect cervical dysplasia (CIN) before it becomes carcinoma"
"One use of Mammography as a screening tool is to detect in situ breast cancer before it invades"
"Levels of Prostate Specific Antigen and Digital Rectal Exam are used as screening tools to detect Prostate Carcinoma before it spreads"
"One use of the Hemoccult test (of the stool) and Colonoscopy as screening tools is to detect colonic adenoma before it becomes colonic adenocarcinoma"
"During carcinogenesis, DNA mutations eventually disrupt key regulatory systems, allowing for tumor promotion and progression"
"Aflatoxins are a carcinogen associated with what type of cancer? Hepatocellular Carcinoma"
"Alkylating agents are a carcinogen associated with what types of cancer? Leukemia / Lymphoma"
"Which carcinogen is associated with the following types of cancer? Ethanol Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Oropharynx and Upper Esophagus Pancreatic Carcinoma Hepatocellular Carcinoma"
"Patients typically get chronically exposed to Alkylating agents when they are being given oncologic chemotherapy"
"Ethanol has many methods of carcinogenic activity including: (1) - metabolites forming DNA adducts (2) - depletion of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) (3) - stimulating the Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition"
"Which carcinogen is associated with the following types of cancer? Arsenic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin Angiosarcoma of the Liver Lung Cancer"
"Nowadays, patients typically can get chronically exposed to Arsenic in a couple of different situations, including: (1) - cigarette smoke (2) - Herbicides used in vineyards (3) - metal smelting"
"Which carcinogen is associated with the following types of cancer? Asbestos Bronchogenic Carcinoma Mesothelioma"
"Between bronchogenic carcinoma and mesothelioma, patients exposed to asbestos are far more likely to develop bronchogenic carcinoma than mesothelioma"
"Which carcinogen is associated with the following types of cancer? Cigarette Smoke Transitional Cell Carcinoma (Bladder) Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Cervix Squamous Cell Carcinoma / Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus Renal Cell Carcinoma Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lung Small Cell Lung Cancer Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma"
"Cigarette smoke is the most common carcinogen worldwide"
"Nitrosamines are a carcinogen associated with what type of cancer? Intestinal Gastric Cancer"
"Patients get exposed to Nitrosamines through the consumption of smoked meats"
"Vinyl Chloride is a carcinogen associated with what type of cancer? Angiosarcoma of the Liver"
"Nickel exposure is associated with lung carcinoma"
"Which oncogenic microbe is associated with the following cancers?: EBV Lymphomas (ex. Endemic Burkitt Lymphoma) Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Primary CNS Lymphoma (in AIDS) Posttransplant Lymphoproliferative Disease"
"Which oncogenic microbe is associated with the following cancers?: HHV-8 Kaposi Sarcoma *common in 3...."
"Which oncogenic microbes are associated with the following cancers?: HBV, HCV, Aspergillus::3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma"
"Which oncogenic microbe is associated with the following cancers?: HTLV-1 Adult T-cell Leukemia / Lymphoma"
"Which form of radiation is associated with the following types of cancer? Ionizing Radiation AML CML Thyroid Papillary Carcinoma"
"Ionizing radiation causes carcinogenesis by generating hydroxyl free radicals::specific"
"Which form of radiation is associated with the following types of cancer? Non-Ionizing Radiation Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Skin Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin Melanoma of the Skin"
"Non-ionizing radiation causes carcinogenesis by generating pyrimidine dimers"
"Proto-oncogenes are essential for cell growth and differentiation"
"Categories of proto-oncogenes include: 1) Growth factors 2) Growth factor receptors 3) Signal transducers 4) Nuclear regulators 5) Cell cycle regulators"
"Growth Factors induce cellular growth vs mitogen"
"Signal transducers relay receptor activation to the nucleus (e.g. Ras)"
"The signal transducer Ras is normally associated with Growth Factor Receptors in a(n) inactive GDP-bound state"
"When a Ras-linked Growth Factor receptor is bound, this leads to the Ras bound GDP being replaced with a(n) GTP, resulting in activation of the Ras protein"
"The intrinsic GTPase activity of Ras can be stimulated by GTPase Activating Proteins (GAPs)"
"Activated Ras is regulated by its own intrinsic GTPase activity"
"Mutations of Ras that alter the GAP binding site prolong the activated state of Ras"
"The Cell Cycle is regulated by Cyclins and Cyclin-Dependent Kinases (CDKs) which when complexed allow cells to bypass restriction points (checkpoints)"
"Cyclin-Dependent Kinases are constitutive and are normally inactive"
"The PDGFB proto-oncogene encodes for Platelet-Derived Growth Factor, which upon binding to its receptor stimulates growth This is a(n) growth factor::class found commonly in astrocytoma::pathology"
"The HER2/neu proto-oncogene encodes for the HER2 receptor, which when activated leads to cell proliferation This is a(n) growth factor receptor::class found commonly in breast cancer::pathology"
"The RET proto-oncogene encodes for the RET receptor tyrosine kinase, which is involved in embryological development This is a(n) growth factor receptor::class found commonly in MEN 2A, 2B and medullary carcinoma of thyroid::pathology"
"The KIT proto-oncogene encodes for the Stem Cell Factor receptor, which when bound leads to cell growth This is a(n) growth factor receptor::class found commonly in GI stromal tumor::pathology"
"The RAS family of proto-oncogenes encode for GTP-binding signal transducers that when stimulated leads to cell proliferation This is a(n) signal transducer::class found commonly in carcinomas, lymphoma, and melanoma"
"The ABL proto-oncogene encodes for a cytosolic Tyrosine Kinase that when stimulated leads to cell division"
"The MYCC proto-oncogene encodes for the nuclear regulator c-myc, which stimulates cell cycle progression"
"The MYCN proto-oncogene encodes for the nuclear regulator::class N-myc, which stimulates cell cycle progression"
"The MYCL1 proto-oncogene encodes for the nuclear regulator::class L-myc, which stimulates cell cycle progression"
"The CCND1 proto-oncogene encodes for the cell cycle regulator Cyclin D1, which stimulates cell cycle progression"
"The CDK4 proto-oncogene encodes for the cell cycle regulator Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4, which stimulates cell cycle progression"
"The G1 restriction point of the cell cycle is regulated by the tumor suppressors p53 and Rb"
"p53 restricts the cell cycle to G1 by allowing the inhibition of CDK4, maintaining the hypophosphorylated state of Rb"
"In response to DNA damage, p53 initially attempts to halt the cell cycle and facilitates the activity of DNA repair enzymes *bonus-what does it induce that inhibits the cell cycle?"
"If DNA repair is not possible, p53 induces apoptosis"
"p53 induces apoptosis by activating BAX and BAK, which dimerize and form a pore in the outer mitochondrial membrane"
"Once the mitochondrial membrane has been made permeable, Cytochrome C can leak out and activate initiator caspases"
"The Knudson two-hit hypothesis states that both copy/copies of a tumor suppressor gene must be knocked out for tumor formation"
"Loss of p53 is seen in >50% of cancers"
"Growth Factors stimulate G1 phase by increasing the levels of the Cyclins"
"Once levels of Cyclins reach an appropriate level, these complex with Cyclin-Dependent Kinases to hyperphosphorylate Rb"
"When in the hypophosphorylated state, Rb sequesters E2F transcription factor, which is necessary for transition to the S phase"
"Once hyperphosphorylated, Rb releases the E2F transcription factor which initates the S phase"
"A mutation in Rb results in constitutively free E2F, leading to uncontrolled cell cycle progression"
"Patients with a sporadic Rb mutation will typically develop a(n) unilateral::laterality Retinoblastoma"
"Patients with a germline Rb mutation will typically develop a(n) bilateral Retinoblastoma, with an increased risk of osteosarcoma"
"The proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL normally stabilize the outer mitochondrial membrane, preventing pro-apoptotic proteins from leaving the intermitochondrial membrane space"
"Tumor suppressor genes regulate cell growth"
"The Bcl-2 proto-oncogene becomes constitutively activated in Follicular Lymphoma and diffuse Large B cell Lymphoma"
"In Follicular lymphoma, there is a failure of apoptosis of faulty B cells during somatic hypermutation"
"Cancers may express telomerase to prevent chromosome shortening and cell death"
"Tumor cells commonly produce angiogenic factors (ex. FGF / VEGF), which are necessary for tumor survival and growth"
"Genetic mutations often result in the cellular production of abnormal proteins, which are expressed on MHC class I molecules"
"Tumor cells can evade apoptosis / immune surveillance by downregulating expression of MHC class I or alternative splicing of the Fas receptor"
"One hallmark of cancer is the ability to be growth signal self-sufficient"
"One hallmark of cancer is the ability to have limitless replicative potential (ex. exceed the hayflick limit)"
"Normal tissue layers have basal to apical polarity"
"Lymphatic spread is characteristic of carcinomas, while Hematogenous spread is characteristic of sarcomas"
"Histologically, benign tumors are usually well differentiated, whereas malignant tumors are classically poorly differentiated"
"Histologically, benign tumors display organized::organized or disorganized? growth, whereas malignant tumors display disorganized::organized or disorganized? growth"
"Histologically, the nuclei of benign tumors are uniform, whereas the nuclei of malignant tumors are pleomorphic and hyperchromatic"
"Histologically, benign tumors have a(n) low nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio, whereas malignant tumors have a(n) high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio"
"Histologically, benign tumors display minimal mitotic activity, whereas malignant tumors display high mitotic activity with atypical mitosis"
"Do benign tumors have metastatic potential? No"
"Immunohistochemistry is used to characterize tumors that are difficult to classify on histology"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a(n) Cytokeratin stain can be used to identify Epithelial tumors (ex Squamous Cell Carcinoma)"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a(n) Vimentin stain can be used to identify Sarcomas, Endometrial Carcinoma, RCC, Meningioma"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a(n) Desmin stain can be used to identify Rhabdomyosarcomas, Leiomyomas, Leiomyosarcomas"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a(n) Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP) stain can be used to identify Astrocytomas, Glioblastomas, Oligodendrogliomas, Ependymomas"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a(n) Neurofilament stain can be used to identify neuroblastomas, medulloblastomas, retinoblastomas"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a stain for PSA can be used to identify Prostate Cancer"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a stain for ER can be used to identify malignancies of breast epithelium"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; Thyroglobulin can be used to identify malignancies of the Thyroid"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; Chromogranin A, Synaptophysin, NCAM (CD56), Neuron Specific Enolase (NSE) can all be used to identify Neuroendocrine and Neuronal tumors"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; a(n) S-100 stain can be used to identify Melanomas, Schwannomas, Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis"
"Serum tumor markers are proteins released by a tumor into serum (e.g. PSA)"
"Elevated levels of serum tumor markers require tissue biopsy for definitive diagnosis of neoplasia"
"Grading is the microscopic assessment of differentiation in a cancer"
"Well differentiated (low grade) cancers resemble normal parent tissue"
"Poorly differentiated (high grade) cancers do not resemble normal parent tissue"
"Well-differentiated cancers have a better prognosis than poorly-differentiated cancers"
"Staging is the assessment of the size and spread of a cancer"
"Tumor staging is a(n) more important prognostic factor than tumor grading"
"Staging of a cancer is determined after final surgical resection of the tumor"
"Tumor staging utilizes the TNM system: T: Tumor size and/or depth of invasion N: Spread to regional lymph nodes M: Metastasis"
"Spread to regional lymph nodes (N) is the second most important prognostic factor for a cancer"
"Metastasis (M) is the single most important prognostic factor for a cancer"
"The \unhappy triad\\" is a common knee injury in contact sports due to lateral force applied to a(n) planted leg\""
"The \unhappy triad\\" classically consists of damage to the ACL"
"Although the classic presentation for the \unhappy triad\\" involves medial meniscus injury"
"The \unhappy triad\\" presents with acute knee pain and signs of joint injury/instability\""
"Prepatellar bursitis is an inflammation of the prepatellar bursa in front of the kneecap"
"Prepatellar bursitis can be caused by repeated trauma or pressure from excessive kneeling"
"Prepatellar bursitis is also known as \housemaid's knee\\"\""
"A(n) Baker cyst is a collection of synovial fluid in the popliteal fossa in the gastrocnemius-semimembranosus bursa"
"Baker cyst forms in the setting of chronic degenerative or inflammatory joint disease"
"A(n) Baker cyst presents with posterior knee pain/stiffness and detection of a swelling/mass in the popliteal fossa"
"The rotator cuff muscles are innervated primarily by C5-C6::(nerve roots)"
"The rotator cuff muscles are: 1. supraspinatus 2. infraspinatus 3. teres minor 4. subscapularis"
"The supraspinatus and infraspinatus (rotator cuff muscles) are innervated by the suprascapular (C5-C6)::roots nerve"
"The teres minor (rotator cuff muscle) is innervated by the axillary nerve"
"The subscapularis::rotator cuff muscle is innervated by the upper and lower subscapular (C5-C6) nerves"
"The supraspinatus aBducts the arm initially (from 0 to 15°)"
"The supraspinatus is the most commonly injured rotator cuff muscle, due to trauma or degeneration and impingement which leads to tendinopathy or tear"
"Function of the supraspinatus muscle may be assessed using the \empty/full can\\" test\""
"The infraspinatus::rotator cuff muscle and teres minor::rotator cuff muscle laterally (external) rotate::action the arm"
"Injury to the infraspinatus (rotator cuff muscle) is classically seen in baseball pitchers"
"The teres minor (rotator cuff muscle) does the following actions - aDducts the arm - laterally (externally) rotates the arm"
"The subscapularis (rotator cuff muscle) aDducts and medially (internally) rotates the arm (action)"
"The supraspinatus abducts the arm from 0 to 15° and is innervated by the suprascapular nerve"
"The deltoid abducts the arm from 15 to 100° and is innervated by the axillary nerve"
"The trapezius abducts the arm >90° and is innervated by the Spinal Accessory (CNXI) nerve"
"The serratus anterior abducts the arm >100° and is innervated by the long thoracic nerve"
"Medial epicondylitis (aka golfer's elbow) is an elbow injury that may be due to repetitive flexion (forehand shots) that causes tendinosis of the pronator teres and flexor carpi radialis"
"Lateral epicondylitis (aka tennis elbow) is an elbow injury that may be due to repetitive extension (backhand shots) that causes microtrauma of the extensor carpi radialis brevis tendon at its origin"
"The bones of the wrist can be remembered by the mnemonic \So Long To Pinky"
"The scaphoid (bone) (palpable in the anatomic snuff box) is the most commonly fractured carpal bone"
"The scaphoid (bone) is typically injured due to a fall on an outstretched hand"
"Complications of proximal scaphoid fractures include avascular necrosis and nonunion due to retrograde blood supply"
"Dislocation of the lunate (bone) may cause acute carpal tunnel syndrome"
"Carpal tunnel syndrome is due to entrapment of the median nerve between the transverse carpal ligament and the carpal bones"
"Nerve compression in carpal tunnel syndrome presents as paresthesia, pain, and numbness in the distribution of the median nerve"
"Carpal tunnel syndrome leads to atrophy of the thenar eminence, but spares sensation because the palmar cutaneous branch enters the hand external to the carpal tunnel"
"Carpal tunnel syndrome is associated with - Rheumatoid arthritis::inflammatory disorder - Hypothyroidism::thyroid disorder - Acromegaly::pituitary disorder - Pregnancy::reproductive circumstance (due to edema) - Sustained/repeated use (maybe) - Diabetes mellitus::endocrine disorder - Dialysis-related amyloidosis::inflammatory disorder It may also be associated with repetitive use"
"A positive Tinel sign and Phalen maneuver are suggestive of carpal tunnel syndrome"
"A positive Tinel sign is when percussion of the wrist causes tingling"
"A positive Phalen maneuver is when 90 degree flexion of the wrist causes tingling"
"Guyon canal syndrome is due to compression of the ulnar nerve at the wrist or hand"
"Guyon canal syndrome is classically seen in cyclists due to pressure from handlebars"
"Treating an organophosphate poisoning is two fold; Atropine which inhibits all subtypes of muscarinic receptors, and Pralidoxime, which if given early - regenerates AChE"
"Injury to the axillary nerve (C5-C6::(nerve roots)) is commonly due to: - fracture at the surgical neck of the humerus - anterior dislocation of the humerus"
"Injury to the axillary (C5-C6)::roots nerve presents as: 1. flattened deltoid (appearance) 2. loss of arm abduction at shoulder (>15°) (action) 3. loss of sensation over the deltoid muscle and lateral arm (sensation)"
"Injury to the musculocutaneous nerve (C5-C7 (nerve roots)) is commonly due to upper trunk compression"
"Injury to the musculocutaneous (C5-7)::roots nerve presents as: 1. loss of forearm flexion and forearm supination (action) 2. loss of sensation over the lateral forearm (sensation)"
"Injury to the radial nerve (C5-T1::(nerve roots)) can be caused by - midshaft fracture of the humerus - compression of the axilla - \nursemaids elbow\\" - \\"finger\\" drop\""
"Compression of the axilla (resulting in radial nerve injury) can occur due to improper use of crutches or sleeping with an arm over a chair (aka Saturday night palsy)"
"Radial nerve injury presents with: 1. wrist drop, including loss of elbow, wrist, and finger extension (action) 2. decreased grip strength (due to loss of wrist extension) (strength) 3. loss of sensation over posterior arm/forearm and dorsal hand (sensation)"
"Median nerve (C5-T1::nerve roots) injury is commonly due to: - anteromedial supracondylar fracture of the humerus (proximal::proximal or distal? lesion) - carpal tunnel syndrome (distal::proximal or distal? lesion) - wrist laceration (distal::proximal or distal? lesion)"
"Special findings in a(n) median nerve injury include \Median Claw\\" (distal lesion) and \\"Pope's blessing\\" (proximal lesion)\""
"Loss of muscle action in a(n) median nerve injury includes loss of: 1. wrist flexion (weakened-ulnar nerve contributes) 2. flexion of lateral fingers (2nd and 3rd digits) 3. thumb opposition and thumb flexion 4. lateral 2 lumbricals (2nd and 3rd digits)"
"In a(n) median nerve injury, sensation is lost over the: 1. thenar eminence 2. dorsal aspects of lateral 3 1/2 fingers (with proximal lesion) 3. palmar aspects of lateral 3 1/2 fingers (with proximal lesion)"
"Injury to the ulnar nerve (C8-T1 (nerve roots)) commonly occurs due to: - fracture of the medial epicondyle of humerus \funny bone\\" (proximal lesion) - fractured hook of hamate (distal lesion) (from fall on outstretched hand - \\"FOOSH\\")\""
"A special finding in a(n) distal ulnar nerve injury is \ulnar claw\\" on digit extension\""
"The wrist will deviate radially upon flexion in a(n) proximal ulnar nerve lesion"
"Loss of muscle action in a(n) ulnar nerve injury includes loss of: 1. wrist flexion 2. flexion of medial fingers (4th and 5th digits) 3. abduction AND adduction of fingers (interossei) 4. medial 2 lumbricals (4th and 5th digits)"
"In a(n) ulnar nerve injury, sensation is lost over the medial 1 1/2 fingers, including the hypothenar eminence"
"Injury to the recurrent branch of the median nerve (C5-T1::nerve roots) is commonly due to superficial laceration of the palm"
"Injury to the recurrent branch of the median nerve results in: 1. \ape hand / median claw\\" (appearance) 2. loss of thenar muscles (action) 3. no loss of sensation (sensation)\""
"A lesion to #1 (upper trunk injury) would result in  Erb palsy (\waiter's tip\\")\""
"A lesion to #2 would result in Klumpke palsy (total claw hand)"
"A lesion to the #3 - posterior cord would result in wrist drop, paralysis of the deltoid, and impairment of internal rotation of the humerus"
"A lesion to #4 (long thoracic nerve injury) (C5-C7::root) would result in winged scapula"
"A lesion to #5 (axillary nerve injury) would result in deltoid paralysis"
"A lesion to #6 (radial nerve injury) would result in \Saturday night palsy\\" (wrist drop)\""
"A lesion to #7 (musculocutaneous nerve injury) would result in difficulty flexing elbow::muscular deficit and variable loss of sensation::sensory deficit"
"A proximal lesion to #8 (proximal median nerve injury) presents with \Pope's blessing\\" and a loss of sensation in the median nerve distribution\""
"A(n) distal::Proximal or Distal? lesion to #9 (distal ulnar nerve lesion) would result in loss of intrinsic muscles of the hand and ulnar claw hand"
"Erb palsy::condition is due to traction or tear of the upper trunk (C5-C6 roots)"
"Erb palsy is commonly caused by: - lateral traction on neck during delivery (in infants) - trauma (in adults)"
"Muscles lost in Erb palsy include: 1. deltoid 2. supraspinatus 3. infraspinatus 4. biceps brachii"
"Loss of the deltoid and supraspinatus in Erb palsy result in aDduction of the arm"
"Loss of the infraspinatus (muscle) in Erb palsy results in medial rotation of the arm"
"Loss of the biceps brachii in Erb palsy results in extension and pronation of the forearm"
"Klumpke palsy::condition is due to traction or tear of the lower trunk (C8-T1 roots)"
"Klumpke palsy is commonly caused by upward force on the arm during delivery (in infants) or trauma, such as grabbing a tree branch while falling (in adults)"
"Muscles lost in Klumpke palsy include the intrinsic hand muscles: 1. lumbricals 2. interossei 3. hypothenar 4. thenar"
"Loss of the lumbricals::specific muscle group in Klumpke palsy results in total claw hand"
"Thoracic outlet syndrome::condition is due to compression of the lower trunk (roots C8-T1) and subclavian vessels"
"Thoracic outlet syndrome (condition) is commonly caused by: - presence of a(n) cervical rib - Pancoast tumor - scalene muscular abnormalities / hypertrophy / trauma (ex repetitive overhead arm movements)"
"Muscles lost in thoracic outlet syndrome include the intrinsic hand muscles: 1. lumbricals 2. interossei 3. thenar 4. hypothenar"
"Thoracic outlet syndrome presents with: - atrophy of intrinsic hand muscles (due to loss of lower trunk nourishment) - ischemia and pain (due to artery compression) - edema (due to venous compression) - and Klumpke Palsy (due to lower trunk compression)"
"Winged scapula (condition) is due to a lesion of the long thoracic nerve that supplies the serratus anterior"
"Winged scapula is commonly caused by: - axillary node dissection after mastectomy - stab wounds"
"Winged scapula is due to loss of action of the serratus anterior muscle"
"A long thoracic nerve lesion presents with: #1 - inability to abduct arm above horizontal position #2 - inability to anchor scapula to thoracic cage"
"Clawing of the hand is best seen with distal::proximal or distal lesions of the median or ulnar nerves"
"Clawing of the hand is characterized by extension::flexion/extension at the MCP joint, flexion::flexion/extension at the PIP joint, and flexion::flexion/extension at the DIP joint"
"Claw hand deficits are less::(more/less) pronounced in proximal::(proximal/distal) lesions"
"\Ulnar claw\\" hand (distortion of the hand) is most apparent when extending fingers or at rest"
"\Pope's blessing\\" hand (aka hand of benediction) (distortion of the hand) is most apparent when making a fist"
"\Median claw\\" hand (distortion of the hand) is most apparent when extending fingers or at rest"
"\OK gesture\\" hand is most apparent when making a fist"
"Atrophy of the thenar eminence is seen in median nerve lesions, while atrophy of the hypothenar eminence is seen in ulnar nerve lesions"
"Muscles of the thenar eminence: 1. Opponens pollicis 2. Abductor pollicis brevis 3. Flexor pollicis brevis"
"Muscles of the hypothenar eminence: 1. Opponens digiti minimi 2. Abductor digiti minimi 3. Flexor digiti minimi brevis"
"Muscles of the thenar eminence are innervated by the median nerve"
"Muscles of the hypothenar eminence are innervated by the ulnar nerve"
"The dorsal interossei aBduct the fingers; the palmar interossei aDduct the fingers"
"The lumbricals flex at the MCP joint and extend at the PIP and DIP::2 joints"
"The iliohypogastric nerve (T12-L1::nerve roots) provides: - sensory innervation to the suprapubic region - motor innervation to the transversus abdominis and internal oblique"
"The iliohypogastric nerve is commonly injured due to post abdominal surgery sutures"
"Injury to the iliohypogastric nerve often presents as burning or tingling pain at the surgical incision site radiating to the inguinal and suprapubic region"
"The genitofemoral nerve (L1-L2::(nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the scrotum/labia majora::genital area and upper anterior thigh::femoral area - motor innervation to the cremaster"
"The genitofemoral nerve is commonly injured due to laparoscopic surgeries for inguinal hernias or by retractor blades used in abdominal surgery"
"Injury to the genitofemoral nerve presents as decreased sensation of upper anterior thigh and an absent cremasteric reflex"
"The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve (L2-L3 (nerve roots)) provides sensory innervation to the anterior and lateral thigh and motor innervation to the none"
"The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve is commonly injured (meralgia paresthetica) due to tight clothing, obesity or pregnancy"
"Injury to the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve presents as decreased anterior and lateral thigh sensation"
"The Obturator nerve (L2-L4 (nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the distal medial thigh::very specific - motor innervation to the thigh adductor muscles"
"The obturator nerve is commonly injured due to surgery of the posterior pelvis using a trocar"
"Injury to the obturator nerve presents as decreased medial thigh sensation and adduction"
"The femoral nerve (L2-L4 (nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the anterior thigh and medial leg - motor innervation to the quadriceps, iliopsoas, pectineus, and sartorius"
"The femoral nerve is commonly injured due to pelvic fracture"
"Injury to the femoral nerve presents as decreased thigh flexion and leg extension"
"The sciatic nerve (L4-S3 (nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the none - motor innervation to the semitendinosus, semimembranosus, biceps femoris, and hamstring portion of the adductor magnus"
"The sciatic nerve is commonly injured due to: - a herniated disc - posterior hip dislocation - piriformis syndrome"
"The sciatic nerve splits into the common peroneal/fibular nerve and the tibial nerve"
"The common peroneal nerve (L4-S2 (nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the dorsum of the foot - motor innervation to the short head of the biceps femoris::proximal, tibialis anterior, and extensor muscles of the digits"
"The common peroneal nerve is commonly injured due to - trauma - compression of the lateral aspect of the leg (ex Cast) - a(n) fibular neck fracture"
"Injury to the common peroneal nerve presents as loss of sensation on the dorsum of the foot and foot drop::motor"
"Foot drop is characterized by a foot that is inverted and plantarflexed at rest"
"Foot drop is characterized by loss of eversion and dorsiflexion (movements) of the foot"
"Foot drop results in a \steppage gait\\"\""
"The tibial nerve (L4-S3::nerve roots) provides: - sensory innervation to the sole of foot - motor innervation to the triceps surae (soleus), plantaris, popliteus, flexor muscles of the foot, and tibialis posterior"
"The tibial nerve is commonly injured due to: - knee trauma - Baker cyst (proximal lesion) - tarsal tunnel syndrome (distal lesion)"
"Distal tibial nerve lesions present with: - sensory loss over the sole of the foot - weakness of intrinsic muscles of the foot"
"The superior gluteal nerve (L4-S1::(nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the none - motor innervation to the gluteus medius, gluteus minimus, and tensor fascia latae"
"The superior gluteal nerve is commonly injured due to intramuscular injection to the upper medial gluteal region (iatrogenic)"
"Injury to the superior gluteal nerve presents with trendelenburg sign and a gluteus medius lurch"
"Trendelenburg sign is characterized by tilting of the pelvis contralateral to the lesion"
"Intramuscular injections in the buttocks should be given in the anterolateral quadrant (specifically the von Hochstetter triangle) to avoid injury to the superior gluteal nerve"
"The inferior gluteal nerve (L5-S2::(nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the none - motor innervation to the gluteus maximus"
"The inferior gluteal nerve is commonly injured due to posterior hip dislocation"
"Injury to the inferior gluteal nerve presents as difficulty climbing stairs and rising from a seated position due to loss of hip extension"
"The pudendal nerve (S2-S4 (nerve roots)) provides: - sensory innervation to the perineum - motor innervation to the external urethral and anal sphincters"
"The pudendal nerve can be injured due to: - stretching during childbirth - saddle injury seen in cyclists"
"Injury to the pudendal nerve presents as: - decreased sensation in the perineal and genital area (sensory) - fecal or urinary incontinence (motor)"
"The pudendal nerve can be blocked with local anesthetic during childbirth / minor surgeries of the vagina and perineum using the ischial spine and sacrospinous ligament as landmarks for injection"
"What action do the following muscles allow the hip to do? Hip abduction Gluteus medius Gluteus minimus"
"What action do the following muscles allow the hip to do? Hip adduction Adductor magnus Adductor longus Adductor brevis"
"What action do the following muscles allow the hip to do? Hip extension Gluteus maximus Semitendinosus Semimembranosus Long head of the Biceps femoris"
"What action do the following muscles allow the hip to do? Hip flexion Iliopsoas (Iliacus + Psoas major / minor) Rectus femoris Tensor fascia lata Sartorius Pectineus"
"What kind of rotation do the following muscles allow the hip to do? Internal rotation Gluteus medius Gluteus minimus Tensor fascia lata"
"What kind of rotation do the following muscles allow the hip to do? External rotation Iliopsoas Gluteus maximus Piriformis Obturator"
"In a cervical or lumbar disc herniation, the disc typically herniates into the vertebral canal, affecting the inferior nerve"
"Intervertebral discs generally herniate posterolaterally::direction due to the thin posterior longitudinal ligament and thicker anterior longitudinal ligament"
"An intervertebral disc herniation at the L3-L4 level will result in: - weakness of leg extension and thigh flexion (action) - decreased patellar reflex - decreased sensation of anterior / medial thigh"
"An intervertebral disc herniation at the L4-L5 level will result in: - weakness of dorsiflexion (action) - difficulty in heel-walking"
"An intervertebral disc herniation at the L5-S1 level will result in: - weakness of plantar flexion (action) - difficulty in toe-walking - decreased achilles (ankle jerk) reflex"
"The long thoracic nerve travels with the lateral thoracic artery through the axilla/lateral thorax"
"The axillary nerve travels with the posterior circumflex humeral artery around the surgical neck of the humerus"
"The radial nerve travels with the deep brachial artery around the midshaft of the humerus"
"The median nerve travels with the brachial artery around the distal humerus/cubital fossa"
"The tibial nerve travels with the popliteal artery through the popliteal fossa"
"The tibial nerve travels with the posterior tibial artery posterior to the medial malleolus"
"Nusinersen is an antisense drug used to treat Spinal Muscular Atrophy"
"Treatment with nusinersen increases your risk for scoliosis"
"Eteplirsen is a antisense drug used to treat Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy by allowing the generation of a partially functional dystrophin protein"
"Bevacizumab can be used to treat Wet Age-related Macular Degeneration and Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy"
"Due to its anti-angiogenic effect, Bevacizumab poses an increased risk of bleeding and impairs wound healing"
"Bevacizumab can cause perforation of the GI tract"
"Rituximab targets B cells by binding CD20 surface antigen"
"Rituximab can lead to a depletion of what antibody type? IgG"
"Patients who are being treated with Rituximab should be watched for reactivation of the Hepatitis B or JC::2 Virus"
"Because the skin has abundant EGFR, patients undergoing Cetuximab treatment can experience a(n) Papulopustular acneiform rash"
"Chimeric biologics can be recognized as their names will include the infix -xi-"
"Serum Sickness can be treated with pulsed corticosteroid therapy"
"In physiological homeostasis, purines are excreted by way of metabolism to uric acid"
"In Purine metabolism, purines end up being converted to hypoxanthine, a substrate for xanthine oxidase"
"In Purine metabolism, xanthine oxidase first converts hypoxanthine to xanthine, and then converts xanthine to uric acid"
"Acute gout will commonly manifest in the 1st metatarsal"
"NSAIDs are the 1st line treatment for acute gout"
"Glucocorticoids are an immunosuppresive commonly used to treat acute gout"
"Colchicine is used to treat acute::acute or chronic? gout"
"Treatment for pseudogout consists of - NSAIDs - glucocorticoids - colchicine"
"When Pseudogout crystals are aspirated from the joint for microscopic analysis, these are blue::color and weakly positively::negatively/positively birefringent under parallel polarized light"
"The treatments for prophylactic treatment of chronic gout can be remembered by the mnemonic \Prevent A Painful Flare\\": - Probenecid - Allopurinol - Pegloticase (recombinant uricase) - Febuxostat\""
"Allopurinol and Febuxostat are used to inhibit xanthine oxidase in the management of Chronic Gout"
"After starting cytotoxic chemotherapy, a syndrome that can arise due to the massive amount of Tumor cell death is known as Tumor Lysis Syndrome"
"Tumor Lysis Syndrome is most common with treatment of lymphomas and acute lymphoblastic leukemia"
"The symptoms of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome can be managed with Xanthine Oxidase inhibitors"
"Drugs metabolized by xanthine oxidase (like the immunosuppressant Azathioprine and 6MP) will have serum levels boosted by administration of Allopurinol/Febuxostat"
"Probenecid and high-dose Aspirin decrease renal tubular reabsorption of uric acid"
"Probenecid may increase the risk of forming renal stones due to increased uric acid excretion"
"Patients taking drugs that are excreted via the renal tubular basolateral OAT channels (ex Penicillin, Cephalosporins, Methotrexate) should be monitored carefully while taking Probenecid"
"Uricosurics (like Probenecid) are only for under excretors::over producers / under excretors of uric acid"
"Probenecid is a(n) Sulfa drug and thus in susceptible patients can cause symptoms ranging from Fever to UTI to Stevens Johnson Syndrome"
"Low-dose Aspirin and Diuretics decrease uric acid secretion"
"Pegloticase and Rasburicase are recombinant uricases that works by converting uric acid into water soluble allantoin"
"Pegloticase can cause hemolysis in patients with G6PD deficiency"
"Pegloticase is a gout drug that can cause anaphylaxis"
"Rasburicase differs from Pegloticase as it is not PEGylated"
"At normal levels, uric acid is excreted by the kidneys"
"The Hawthorne Effect is a type of measurement bias where the participants change their behavior in response to awareness of being observed"
"Cladribine is an antineoplastic purine nucleoside analog that prevents cell cycle progression at the S* phase"
"Cladribine is primarily indicated for Hairy Cell Leukemia"
"Cladribine is activated primarily in lymphocytes, and works by inhibiting the enzyme adenosine deaminase (ADA)"
"A potentially fatal eosino::cell typephilic delayed hypersensitivity reaction elicited by Allopurinol is DRESS Syndrome"
"Can Allopurinol cause sloughing of skin at the dermal-epidermal junction? Yes"
"Xanthine Oxidase inhibitors can be used for prophylaxis of Uric Acid stones"
"The massive onset of hyperuricemia in Tumor Lysis Syndrome can lead to acute renal failure"
"Azathioprine/6MP are metabolized by the enzyme xanthine oxidase, thus inhibitors of that enzyme can boost serum levels of these drugs"
"6-mercaptopurine is bioactivated into its active metabolites via the enzyme HGPRT"
"Cells generate purines for cell growth through either de novo production or through the salvage pathway"
"The Ubiquitin-Proteasome system is recruited in response to damaged proteins as a result of cellular stress"
"Pembrolizumab is indicated for the treatment of all solid tumors that bear a(n) PD-L1 mutation"
"Because Lymphocytes are a cell population that proliferate rapidly, Azathioprine / 6MP work especially well for the treatment of Lymphocyte mediated inflammatory diseases"
"Azathioprine / 6MP can cause Hepatitis, thus must monitor liver function tests"
"Sulfasalazine is a combination of Mesalamine (anti-inflammatory) and Sulfapyridine (anti-bacterial), and thus is contraindicated in patients with sulfa allergies"
"Sulfasalazine is an anti-inflammatory therapy primarily indicated for Rheumatoid Arthritis"
"Sulfasalazine can cause a hemolytic anemia in patients with G6PD deficiency"
"Mesalamine is typically prescribed to be taken orally / rectally / as an enema for the treatment of IBD"
"Because Mesalamine acts in a similar manner to aspirin, it is contraindicated in patients with kidney disease"
"Sulfasalazine can cause a reversible oligospermia"
"Sulfasalazine is metabolized by colonic bacteria into the active component (mesalamine) which is used to treat the colitis aspects of IBD"
"Mesalamine (5ASA) works by inhibiting the synthesis of proinflammatory eicosanoids and cytokines"
"Mycophenolate Mofetil inhibits the enzyme Inosine Monophosphate Dehydrogenase (IMP dehydrogenase)"
"Mycophenolate mofetil is used prophylactically to reduce transplant rejection"
"Immunosuppressants are frequently used for suppression of cellular immunity to help prevent acute transplant rejection"
"Mycophenolate Mofetil is associated with invasive CMV infections"
"Mycophenolate mofetil can result in the hematological side effect of myelosuppression"
"Mycophenolate mofetil can affect the GI tract, leading to diarrhea"
"Outside of transplant rejection, Mycophenolate mofetil is used to to treat Lupus Nephritis"
"5-Fluorouracil (5FU) is an cytotoxic pyrimidine analog that prevents cell cycle progression at the S phase"
"Upon bioactivation, 5FU (now 5-FdUMP) covalently complexes with thymidylate synthase and folic acid, reducing DNA synthesis"
"When injected intravenously, 5FU can be used to treat colon cancer and pancreatic cancer"
"The effects of 5FU can be potentiated with Leucovorin"
"As a topical cream, 5FU can be used to treat basal cell carcinoma"
"Patients taking 5FU intravenously can experience Hand-Foot::skin syndrome"
"Patients taking 5FU as a topical cream can have complications of hyperpigmentation and photosensitivity"
"Hydroxyurea can also be used to treat malignant melanoma"
"Because the highly proliferative cell population at the bone marrow is very dependent on DNA synthesis, all antimetabolites (ex MTX, 5FU, Hydroxyurea) can cause myelosuppression"
"Methotrexate is a(n) folic acid analogue that blocks pyrimidine synthesis by competitively inhibiting dihydrofolate reductase"
"If taken during pregnancy, Methotrexate can cause neural tube defects, most commonly spina bifida or anencephaly"
"If β-hCG levels are still high after a D&C of a molar pregnancy, the remaining Hydatidiform mole can be treated with methotrexate"
"Methotrexate can cause pulmonary fibrosis, resulting in restrictive lung disease"
"Methotrexate can cause a(n) folate / Vitamin B9::vitamin deficiency"
"Since methotrexate is a(n) weak acid, a methotrexate overdose can be treated with Bicarbonate in order to alkalinize urine"
"Treatment of Polymyositis / Dermatomyositis involves corticosteroids followed by long-term methotrexate therapy"
"Methotrexate can be used as a disease modifying agent in the treatment of Lymphocyte::cell type mediated disorders"
"Choriocarcinomas and Trophoblastic Tumors can be treated with Methotrexate"
"As an antineoplastic, Methotrexate is primarily indicated for cancers of lymphocytes, particularly leukemias and lymphomas"
"During pregnancy, Methotrexate can be used as a(n) abortifacent (with Misoprostol) as well as in the treatment of ectopic pregnancy"
"Because methotrexate affects all rapidly dividing cells, this can affect the oral mucosa resulting in a(n) mucositis"
"Myelosuppression induced by Methotrexate / overdose can be reserved using the drug Leucovorin"
"Etanercept is used primarily for the treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis"
"Etanercept works by complexing with TNF-a and inducing phagocytosis of the complex"
"Monoclonal antibodies against TNF-a are used primarily to treat Rheumatoid Arthritis and Inflammatory Bowel Disease"
"Cyclosporine can cause arthropathy by causing hyperuricemia"
"Cyclosporine and antithymocyte globulin can be used in the immunosuppressive treatment of immune mediated Aplastic Anemia"
"Sargramostim can be used for rebuilding the bone marrow in in patients who have aplastic anemia"
"Cyclosporine can cause a(n) Type 4 Renal Tubular Acidosis"
"Tacrolimus can cause a(n) hyperglycemia"
"Azathioprine can cause pancreatitis resulting in elevated amylase and lipase levels"
"Important to its use as an antineoplastic, Azathioprine / 6MP prevent cell cycle progression at S phase"
"Azathioprine/6MP are used to wean patients off of corticosteroids in the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases"
"Azathioprine/6MP are used to treat chronic inflammatory diseases that are refractory to corticosteroids"
"The primary endogenous source of Erythropoetin in the body are interstitial fibroblasts found in the Kidney"
"The anemia in Chronic Kidney Disease can be treated with epoetin alfa"
"Athletes with polycythemia should be tested for exogenous erythropoetin injection"
"Recombinant IFN-α is indicated for certain viral infections, particularly chronic Hepatitis B & C infections as well as HHV-8 induced Kaposi Sarcoma"
"Recombinant IFN-α can be used to treat malignant melanoma, hairy cell leukemia and renal cell carcinoma"
"IFN-α can be used to treat condyloma accuminatum"
"Recombinant IFN-β can be used to treat Multiple Sclerosis (Type IV HS disease)"
"Interferons stimulate antitumor activity by activating Natural Killer Cells"
"Rituximab is indicated for immune thrombocytopenic purpura"
"Daclizumab is contraindicated in patients with liver impairment"
"Eculizumab is a monoclonal antibody for the C5 complement protein"
"Eculizumab is indicated for the treatment of Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria"
"In the treatment of Multiple Sclerosis, Natalizumab works by preventing extravasation of autoreactive CD8+::CD4 or CD8? T Cells"
"In the treatment of Crohn's Disease, Natalizumab works by preventing adhesion of autoreactive gut homing Th17 cells"
"Abciximab is an antiplatelet therapy used in patients undergoing PCI in order to prevent ischemic complications"
"Abciximab is indicated for unstable angina"
"Because Abciximab is a monoclonal antibody that binds platelets, patients can develop side effects of bleeding and thrombocytopenia"
"As part of the reversal of digoxin toxicity, anti-digoxin Fab fragments can be given to chelate Digoxin"
"Palivizumab is indicated for RSV prophylaxis in high-risk infants, and works by binding RSV Fusion protein"
"Tocilizumab is an anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibody indicated for Giant Cell Arteritis and Cytokine Release Syndrome"
"In treating patients with RSV, Ribavirin is preferred in adults, whereas palivizumab is perferred in children"
"PCSK9 Inhibitors (alirocumab and evolocumab) work by inactivating LDL-receptor degradation, resulting in a dramatic decrease in LDL"
"An overdose of Dabigatran, a direct thrombin inhibitor, can be reversed by Idarucizumab"
"Tumor Lysis Syndrome results from the fulminant release of tumor cell contents into the plasma, resulting in the following problems - Hyperkalemia - Hyperphosphatemia - Hypocalcemia - hyperuricemia due to increased nucleic acid breakdown"
"Tumor Lysis Syndrome can be prevented / treated with aggressive hydration, xanthine oxidase inhibitors, or rasburicase"
"Recombinant IFN-y can be used to treat Chronic Granulomatous Disease"
"Canakinumab is a biologic that binds and prevents the activity of IL-1B"
"Periodic Fever Syndromes can be treated with Canakinumab"
"Canakinumab can be used to treat patients with Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis"
"Pegademase is a recombinant Adenosine Deaminase used for treatment of the second most common form of SCID"
"Glatiramer is a treatment for Multiple Sclerosis that is an analog of Myelin Basic Protein and works by shifting TH1 cells to a TH2 phenotype"
"Enzyme Replacement Therapy for Fabry Disease requires replacement of alpha-galactosidase A"
"Enzyme Replacement Therapy for Gaucher disease requires replacement of IV Glucocerebrosidase"
"Enzyme Replacement Therapy for Hurler Syndrome requires replacement of alpha-L-iduronidase"
"Enzyme Replacement Therapy for Hunter Syndrome requires replacement of Iduronate Sulfatase"
"Enzyme Replacement Therapy for Pompe disease requires replacement of alpha-1,4-glucosidase (aka acid maltase)"
"The most common side effect of Filgrastim is bone pain"
"Leflunomide is an antimetabolite that reversibly inhibits dihydroorotate dehydrogenase preventing pyrimidine synthesis"
"Leflunomide inhibits T-cell proliferation, which makes it especially useful for its two main indications: Rheumatoid Arthritis and Psoriatic Arthritis"
"Because gut mucosa are a population of rapidly proliferating cells, people taking Leflunomide can experience diarrhea"
"Leflunomide is contraindicated in pregnancy as it is a known teratogen"
"Colchicine works by inhibiting intracellular microtubule polymerization through binding and stabilizing tubulin"
"By interfering with tubulin function, Colchicine disrupts the cytoskeleton::cellular element of neutrophils"
"The pathogenesis of Gout/Pseudogout involves Pattern Recognition Receptors detecting crystalline deposits (uric acid / calcium pyrophosphate) in joints, which in response leads to an inflammatory cascade mediated by IL-1, causing the joint to be invaded by neutrophils"
"Colchicine is primarily used for treatment of diseases that involve dysfunction of neutrophils"
"Colchicine can irritate the GI tract, resulting in diarrhea"
"Patients taking Colchicine can develop agranulocytosis"
"Colchicine can affect the muscle, resulting in a(n) myopathy"
"Colchicine can be used for acute treatment and prophylaxis of calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease"
"Phosphoribosyl Pyrophosphate (PRPP) is a precursor to IMP"
"IMP is an intermediate purine nucleotide precursor to AMP and GMP"
"Patients taking Azathioprine / 6MP are predisposed to reactivation of Herpes Zoster or exacerbation of chronic viral Hepatitis"
"Mycophenolate mofetil works by inhibiting the proliferation of lymphocytes"
"Mycophenolate Mofetil can be used to treat Rheumatoid Arthritis"
"Because Cladribine, Cytarabine, Gemcitabine all target immune cells, this can cause patients to be at an increased risk for infection"
"Gemcitabine is active against hematologic malignancies and solid tumors"
"Because the oral mucosa contains rapidly dividing cells, patients taking bleomycin/anthracyclines can experience mucositis and stomatitis"
"The suffix of anthracyclines is -rubicin"
"Intercalation of Anthracyclines into DNA inhibits the progression of Topoisomerase II and induces eviction of histones"
"Rubicins and actinomycin D target rapidly dividing cells, resulting in the hematological side effect of myelosuppression"
"T-tubules are extensions of plasma membrane found in striated muscle"
"T-tubules allow for coordinated contraction of muscles"
"Anthracyclines can target hair follicles, resulting in alopecia"
"A(n) triad is a structure found in skeletal muscle which contains 1 T-tubule with 2 terminal cisternae"
"A(n) dyad is a structure found in cardiac muscle which contains 1 T-tubule with 1 terminal cisterna"
"The first step of muscle contraction occurs when the somatic motor neuron depolarizes, opens Ca2+ channels and ACh is released into the motor end plate"
"An IL-12 Receptor Deficiency may present after administration of the BCG vaccine"
"The BCG vaccine is a(n) live attenuated vaccine"
"In the diagnosis of Tuberculosis, the Interferon-y release assay has fewer false positives from BCG vaccination as opposed to a tuberculin test"
"Chronic PTH stimulates Osteoblasts to upregulate RANKL"
"The second step of muscle contraction occurs after ACh has been released by the motor neuron and binds to nicotinic cholinergic receptors, depolarizing the muscle cell"
"In muscle contraction, after the muscle cell is depolarized, the action potential travels down the T-tubule and to the dihydropyridine receptor::long name"
"Once a(n) conformational change is induced in the dihydropyridine receptor::long name, it opens the ryanodine receptor which releases Ca2+"
"After the ryanodine receptor is opened, the Ca2+ that is released binds to troponin C. This induces a conformational change that moves tropomyosin out of the myosin-binding groove on actin filaments, allowing actin-myosin binding"
"In muscle contraction, the power stroke occurs when myosin binds to actin after releasing Pi"
"During muscle contraction: - the H and I bands, and distance between Z bands, are shortened - the A band remains the same length"
"After the power stroke in muscle contraction, binding of a new ATP molecule causes detachment of the myosin head from the actin filament"
"After myosin binds a new ATP molecule in muscle contraction, hydrolysis of the new ATP molecule to ADP allows the myosin head to adopt a(n) high-energy, \cocked\\" position"
"Type I muscle fibers are also known as slow twitch muscle fibers"
"Slow twitch muscle fibers are red::color due to increased myoglobin concentration"
"Fast twitch muscle fibers are white::color due to decreased myoglobin concentration"
"Slow twitch muscle fibers perform more oxidative phosphorylation due to increased mitochondria"
"Fast twitch muscle fibers perform less oxidative phosphorylation due to decreased mitochondria"
"Type II muscle fibers are also known as fast twitch muscle fibers"
"Type I muscle fibers are increased in proportion after endurance training"
"Type II muscle fibers are increased in proportion after weight/resistance training and sprinting"
"Acetylcholine and bradykinin are stimuli for NO production in endothelial cells"
"Tumor Lysis Syndrome is most commonly seen when patients are treated for Lymphoma and Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"
"NO is synthesized from L-arginine via NO synthase"
"Ca2+ enters smooth muscle cells via L-type Ca2+ channels and binds to calmodulin, leading to smooth muscle contraction"
"NO is produced in endothelial cells, then diffuses into smooth muscle cells leading to relaxation"
"NO upregulates guanylyl cyclase, which converts GTP to cGMP"
"cGMP stimulates myosin-light-chain phosphatase, which dephosphorylates myosin and relaxes smooth muscle"
"The Ca2+-calmodulin complex upregulates myosin-light-chain kinase, which phosphorylates myosin and contracts smooth muscle"
"Bones of the axial skeleton, appendicular skeleton, and base of the skull are formed via endochondral ossification"
"In endochondral ossification, a(n) hyaline cartilage::specific model is first made by chondrocytes"
"In endochondral ossification, osteoblasts and osteoclasts replace cartilage with a matrix of woven bone and then remodel to lamellar bone"
"In adults, woven bone is seen after fractures and in Paget disease"
"Endochondral ossification is defective in achondroplasia"
"Bones of the calvarium, facial bones, and clavicle are formed via membranous ossification"
"In membranous ossification, woven bone is formed directly, without cartilage::how?. It is then later remodeled to lamellar bone"
"Osteo-blasts build bone by secreting collagen, and catalyze mineralization via secretion of ALP"
"Osteo-blasts differentiate from mesenchymal stem cells in the periosteum"
"Osteoblastic activity is measured by: ALP, osteocalcin, and propeptides of type I procollagen"
"Osteo-clasts dissolve bone by secreting H+ and collagenases"
"Osteo-clasts differentiate from a fusion of monocyte/macrophage lineage precursors"
"At low, intermittent levels, PTH exerts anabolic effects on osteoblasts and osteoclasts"
"When chronically elevated, PTH has catabolic effects on bone, known as osteitis fibrosa cystica"
"Estrogens::hormone inhibit apoptosis in osteoblasts and induce apoptosis in osteoclasts"
"Estrogens (hormone) cause closure of the epiphyseal growth plate (bone structure) during puberty"
"Estrogen deficiency leads to increased cycling of bone remodeling and resorption, increasing risk of osteoporosis"
"Rituximab and Cetuximab are Chimeric monoclonal antibodies"
"Rituximab is indicated for disorders of B lymphocytes"
"Rituximab is associated with a rapidly fatal neuropathology known as Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy due to reactivation of the JC virus"
"Chimeric biologics run the risk of causing Serum Sickness within 7-10 days of administration"
"In patients with cardiovascular disease history, Bevacizumab is contraindicated due to the increased risk of Thrombotic events"
"Alemtuzumab is a monoclonal antibody against the cell surface marker CD52, which is expressed by Lymphocytes"
"Dihydrofolate Reductase converts DHF to THF"
"Thymidylate Synthase is an enzyme that catalyzes the methylation of dUMP to dTMP, utilizing the methyl group from a(n) methylated-THF"
"The main importance of the cofactor THF (Tetrahydrofolate) is that it can be given a(n) methyl group for use in methylation reactions"
"Inhibiting Dihydrofolate Reductase results in increased levels of DHF"
"Besides Thymidine production, THF is also involved in the formation of purine nucleosides, as well as some amino acids"
"Antimetabolites (Methotrexate, 5FU, Hydroxyurea) blocks the progression of S phase"
"As methotrexate affects all rapidly dividing cells, this can affect a patient's scalp and cause alopecia"
"As a result of inhibition of Thymidylate Synthase, there are increased levels of dUMP"
"As a result of 5FU targeting rapidly dividing cells, it can affect the gut mucosa resulting in diarrhea"
"Ribonucleotide reductase is used to convert UDP to dUDP"
"Etanercept is contraindicated in patients with an allergy to sulfa drugs"
"PEGylation of interferons allows what pharmacological property to be extended? Half Life"
"Chronic use of IFN-α is also associated with a profound fatigue and CNS toxicity"
"Chronic use of interferon alpha is associated with patients experiencing flu-like symptoms; as well as depression, neutropenia, and myopathy"
"Patients taking Interferon alpha can experience a drug induced lupus"
"IFN-y is important for activating the respiratory burst in phagocytes"
"When viruses enter cells, they can trigger the host (via capsule / viral products) to produce Type I Interferons by activation of cytosolic pattern recognition receptors"
"IFN-α and IFN-β can cause a(n) flu-like syndrome that can be symptomatically taken care of with ibuprofen"
"Type I interferons (IFN-α/IFN-B) work by presensitizing cells to the products of viral replication"
"Upon cytosolic recognition of viral dsRNA, enzymes upregulated by IFN-α/B presensitization lead to apoptosis of the virus infected cell"
"IFN-α acts to stimulate an anticancer immune environment in three ways - inhibit the proliferation of cancer cells - activating lymphocytes - enhancing expression of MHCI/II"
"Interferon β protects the Blood Brain Barrier by preventing extravasation of lymphocytes"
"IFN-Y is primarily produced by TH1 cells and primarily activates Macrophages and NK cells, along with CD8 CTLs"
"IL-12 stimulates polarization of naive TH0 cells towards a TH1 phenotype and away from a TH2 phenotype"
"IFN-y upregulates production of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) which is involved in the generation of ONOO- (a powerful free radical)"
"IFN-y activates cytotoxic T cells"
"IFN-y stimulates NK cells and NKT cells"
"Because antimetabolites (methotrexate, 5FU, Hydroxyurea) suppress the immune system, patients taking these are at an increased risk of infection"
"Methotrexate can cause hepatotoxicity, which results in increased ALT and AST levels"
"Anthracyclines act as antineoplastics by producing free radicals and causing DNA intercalation"
"Alprostadil is used to maintain a(n) Patent Ductus Arteriosus in the setting of certain types of congenital heart disease"
"COX-1 and COX-2 are enzymes that produce prostanoids (e.g. prostaglandins)"
"If neonatal ductus arteriosus is not closing properly, this can be treated with Indomethacin"
"Carboprost, a(n) PGF2a analog can be used to increase uterine tone"
"Dinoprostone, a(n) (PGE2) analog, is used to promote uterine contractions for the purpose of inducing labor or abortion"
"Alprostadil and Misoprostol are analogues of PGE1"
"Misoprostol can be used to prevent NSAID-induced peptic ulcers"
"Because PGE1 is involved in physiological responses of the gut mucosa and the uterine smooth muscle, Misoprostol can cause diarrhea as well as uterine contractions"
"Misoprostol can be clinically used to treat gastric ulcers as at high doses it inhibits secretion of gastric acid"
"Sildenafil and tadalafil are examples of PDE-5 inhibitors"
"Latanoprost and Bimatoprost are long acting PGF2a mimics that can be used to treat open angle glaucoma"
"Latanoprost and bimatoprost can produce brown pigmentation in the iris and can cause eyelash growth"
"PDE-5 inhibitors have the suffix -afil"
"PDE-5 inhibitors work by preventing breakdown of cGMP to produce prolonged smooth muscle relaxation"
"Iloprost and Epoprostenol are prostacyclin (PGI2) analogues that can be used to treat Pulmonary Hypertension"
"Bosentan is an agent used to treat pulmonary hypertension that works by blocking the Endothelin-1 (ET-1) receptor"
"Bosentan is associated with fatal hepatotoxicity"
"Because iloprost and epoprostenol are potent vasodilators, these may cause symptoms of cutaneous flushing, headache, and hypotension"
"In adults, Alprostadil can be used for erectile dysfunction or critical limb ischemia due to its ability to cause potent vasodilation"
"Prostacyclin analogues can cause jaw pain as a side effect"
"PDE-5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil, tadalafil) are indicated for Erectile Dysfunction by way of increasing blood flow in the corpus cavernosum of the penis"
"What is the route of giardia transmission? Fecal-oral"
"When individuals consume water filled with cysts of Giardia, infection occurs"
"What parasite is commonly associated with individuals who go camping and do not purify their water before consumption? Giardia"
"Giardia is a parasite commonly transmitted through consumption of poorly purified water"
"Giardia (parasite) commonly presents with bloating, flatulence and foul-smelling diarrhea"
"The foul-smelling diarrhea seen in a(n) Giardia::what parasite infection is due to steatorrhea* (fatty diarrhea)"
"The steatorrhea in Giardia is hypothesized to stem from excess mucus production that impairs fat absorption in the intestines"
"What vitamin deficiencies can occur with a Giardia infection? Fat Soluble (ADEK)"
"Weight loss::gain or loss is commonly seen in Giardia infections"
"Giardia is ingested in the cyst form. After ingestion, it differentiates into the trophozoite form"
"Does the trophozoite form of Giardia invade the intestinal wall? No, just attaches"
"Does the trophozoite form of Giardia present with bloody diarrhea? No"
"Trophozoites in stool is diagnostic of Giardia infection"
"What diagnostic tests are run to test for Giardia? Stool O&P (ova and parasites); ELISA stool antigen::2"
"The Giardia trophozoites in stool turn into cysts, thereby allowing them to infect other people"
"What is an ELISA looking for when testing for Giardia? Stool antigens"
"How is Giardiasis treated? Metronidazole"
"Does the trophozoite form of Entamoeba histolytica present with bloody diarrhea? Yes"
"How many life-cycle stages does Entamoeba histolytica have? 2"
"Which form of Entamoeba histolytica is infectious when ingested? Cyst form"
"Which intestinal parasites are ingested via contaminated water in the cyst form? Giardia; Entamoeba histolytica; Cryptosporidium::3"
"What demographic is Entamoeba histolytica associated with? MSMs (men who have sex w/ men)"
"What transmission is Entamoeba histolytica associated with? Anal-oral transmission"
"The cyst form of Entamoeba histolytica resides in the small intestines, while differentiation to the trophozoite form occurs in the colon"
"Differentiation of Entamoeba histolytica to the trophozoite form in the colon allows the parasite to enter the portal circulation and, eventually, the liver"
"Which lobe of the liver is most commonly involved with amoebic liver abscesses? Right lobe"
"Patients with amoebic liver abscesses complain of right upper quadrant pain with hepatomegaly"
"Entamoeba histolytica can cause amoebic liver abscesses, which are described as having \anchovy paste\\" consistency\""
"Entamoeba histolytica::which parasite can cause intestinal amebiasis, with ulcerations along the walls of the colon::where (be specific) and bloody diarrhea"
"What shape do the lesions present as in Entamoeba histolytica? \Flask-shaped\\"\""
"What tests are used to diagnose Entamoeba histolytica? Stool O&P (ova and parasites); ELISA stool+serum antigen test; Serology to detect Entamoeba antibodies"
"Trophozoites that contain endocytosed RBCs are diagnostic of Entamoeba histolytica"
"What tests (3) are used to diagnose Entamoeba histolytica? Stool O&P (ova and parasites); ELISA stool+serum antigen test; Serology to detect Entamoeba antibodies"
"Intestinal biopsy with flask-shaped lesions is diagnostic of Entamoeba histolytica"
"What is the first-line treatment for Entamoeba histolytica? Metronidazole"
"Metronidazole is used as treatment for which intestinal parasites? Giardia; Entamoeba histolytica"
"Which two drugs eliminate cysts of Entamoeba histolytica in the lumen of the intestine? Paromomycin; Iodoquinol"
"Echinococcus::Entamoeba histolytica or Echinococcus presents as a mass in the liver that is treated surgically"
"Entamoeba histolytica::Entamoeba histolytica or Echinococcus presents as a mass in the liver that is treated pharmacologically"
"Cryptosporidium is a parasite that causes diarrhea in immunocompromised/suppressed (e.g. HIV/AIDS) patients"
"Cryptosporidia are uni-cellular, partially acid-fast staining organisms"
"Cryptosporidium oocysts can be visualized with a(n) Acid-Fast (Ziehl-Neelsen) stain"
"Cryptosporidium is passed via infectious cysts present in stool"
"The cysts of Cryptosporidium::which parasite consist of 4::# motile sporozoites"
"Sporozoites of cryptosporidium attach to the intestinal wall, causing diarrhea::what symptom and small intestine damage"
"Oocysts that stain acid-fast on Stool O&P are indicative of Cryptosporidium"
"Nitazoxanide is an antiprotozoal used *exclusively in immunocompetent hosts to treat Cryptosporidium"
"Cryptosporidium is highly resistant to chlorination, therefore filtration is used to remove the parasite from water"
"Cryptosporidium::which parasite can be treated with the macrolide antibiotic spiramycin"
"Giardia (parasite) is transmitted through passage of the cyst form in the intestinal tract and out as stool"
"Which parasite causes amoebiasis (amoebic dysentery)? Entamoeba Histolytica"
"Bloody diarrhea due to infection is known as dysentery"
"Protozoa are eukaryotes::prokaryotes or eukaryotes"
"Which form of protozoa develops inside the body, is known as the \feeding form\\"? Trophozoite\""
"Which form of protozoa is found in feces of animals, penetrating the water supply and allowing for new infection? Cyst"
"All GI protozoa have a(n) fecal-oral transmission"
"Metronidazole is used to treat which 3 protozoal infections? Giardia Entamoeba Histolytica Trichomonas"
"Iodoquinol and Paromomycin can be used to treat Entamoeba Histolytica::which protozoa?"
"Nitazoxanide can be used to treat Cryptosporidium::which protozoa?"
"Suramin and Melarsoprol::What drugs (2) can be used to treat Trypanosoma brucei::which protozoa?"
"Atovaquone::What drug can be used to treat Babesia"
"Nifurtimox::What drug can be used to treat Chagas disease::which protozoa?"
"Sodium stibogluconate::What drug can be used to treat Leishmaniasis"
"Most often, severe fungal infections occur in immunocompromised/suppressed patients"
"Which fungus causes histoplasmosis? Histoplasma capsulatum"
"Histoplasma Capsulatum::Which fungus is associated with bat and bird droppings, therefore spelunkers who explore caves are at risk, or farmers with chicken coops"
"Histoplasma::Which fungus is endemic to the central and midwestern United States"
"Transmission of Histoplasma occurs through the respiratory tract"
"Histoplasma::Which fungus will characteristically present on histology as macrophages with oval bodies"
"Serum and Urine rapid antigen tests can also be used to detect Histoplasma::which fungus"
"Histoplasma are smaller than::larger than/smaller than/the same size as RBCs"
"Histoplasma is dimorphic, meaning the temperature of its surroundings determines the form of the fungus"
"Histoplasma, Blastomycosis and most* other systemic fungi are found in the mold form in soil and the yeast* form in the body"
"Chronic Histoplasmosis::fungal infection can look similar to TB, with cavitary lesions in the upper lobes of the lungs and calcified nodules with fibrotic scarring"
"Histoplasmosis can also cause erythema nodosum, characterized by painful red nodules, typically on the shins"
"Dissemination of Histoplasmosis::which fungus in immunocompromised patients to the liver and spleen results in hepatosplenomegaly, with gross pathology of these organs showing calcifications"
"Histoplasmosis::which fungus targets the reticuloendothelial system, ultimately resulting in dissemination to the liver and spleen"
"Dissemination of Histoplasmosis to the liver and spleen occurs in immunocompromised patients"
"Local, mild infections of Histoplasmosis are treated with -azole::what suffix drugs, e.g. fluconazole, itraconazole"
"Systemic (disseminated) infections of Histoplasmosis are treated with Amphotericin B"
"Great lakes and Ohio river valley are buzzwords for which fungus? Blastomycosis"
"Mississippi river valley and Ohio river valley are buzzwords for which fungus? Histoplasmosis"
"Blastomycosis::Which fungus can also appear on the East coast"
"Blastomycosis is a(n) dimorphic fungus that changes form with different temperatures"
"Transmission of Blastomycosis occurs via inhalation of aerosol-ized spores"
"Once inside the body, blastomycosis::Which fungus in the yeast form replicates via broad based budding"
"Blastomycosis are the same size as::larger than/smaller than/the same size as RBCs"
"A(n) patchy alveolar infiltrate is characteristic of Blastomycosis::which fungus on CXR, along with lesions or cavities in the lungs"
"Dissemination of blastomycosis commonly occurs in immunocompromised patients"
"Blastomycosis commonly occurs near the Great Lakes and also in the eastern and southern US as well"
"Systemic effects of blastomycosis typically occur when patients are in an immunocompromised state"
"Dissemination of Blastomycosis::what fungal infection from the lungs is most likely to occur in the skin and bones"
"Chronic Blastomycosis::which fungus may cause Osteomyelitis::what bone pathology"
"Besides histoplasmosis, which other fungus can be detected through urine antigen testing? Blastomycosis"
"Local, mild infections of Blastomycosis are treated with -azole::what suffix drugs, e.g. itraconazole"
"Systemic (disseminated) infections of Blastomycosis are treated with Amphotericin B"
"Coccidioidomycosis::Which fungus is found in the Southwestern United States"
"The route of transmission of coccidioidomycosis::which fungus is through inhalation of spores in dust"
"Earthquakes are a risk factor for the spread of coccidioidomycosis infection due to their ability to kick up dust and their high prevalence in the Southwestern U.S."
"Coccidioidomycosis is a(n) dimorphic fungus, as its form changes based on the temperature of its environment"
"Coccidioidomycosis::which fungus is mold in the soil and spherules of endospores in the body, which can rupture and spread throughout the lungs and rest of the body"
"Coccidioidomycosis spherules of endospores are larger than::larger than/smaller than/the same size as RBCs"
"The clinical manifestation of Coccidioidomycosis::what fungal infection is similar to acute pneumonia; cough, fever and arthralgias"
"A(n) clear CXR with possible lesions or cavities in the lungs is characteristic of Coccidioidomycosis::which fungus"
"Coccidioidomycosis can also cause erythema nodosum, characterized by painful red nodules, typically on the shins"
"Erythema Nodosum symbolizes a robust immune response, therefore this symptom of coccidioidomycosis and histoplasmosis::which two fungal infections typically occurs in otherwise healthy patients"
"Infection of coccidioidomycosis::which fungus occurs commonly in the skin and lungs, with dissemination to bone and meninges"
"Which systemic fungal infection can, when disseminated, infect the meninges and cause meningitis? Coccidioidomycosis"
"A(n) KOH stain or culture gives physicians a definitive diagnosis in histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis (fungal infections)"
"Serology with IgM antibodies to histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis (systemic fungi) signifies recent infection"
"Systemic (disseminated) infections of coccidioidomycosis are treated with Amphotericin B"
"Paracoccidioidomycosis::which fungus has a geographical distribution localized to South America"
"Which fungal infection is characterized by a yeast form with multiple buds that radiate out from a central vacuole? Paracoccidioidomycosis"
"Paracoccidioidomycosis is a(n) dimorphic fungus that changes form with different temperatures"
"Paracoccidioidomycosis are larger than::larger than/smaller than/the same size as RBCs"
"Transmission of paracoccidioidomycosis occurs via respiratory droplets"
"Dissemination of paracoccidioidomycosis::which fungus can result in cervical, axillary, and inguinal lymphadenopathy"
"Progression of paracoccidioidomycosis::which fungal infection can result in spreading from cervical lymph nodes to the lungs, causing granulomas"
"Mucosal ulcers in the upper respiratory tract and mouth is characteristic of Paracoccidioidomycosis::which fungal infection?"
"Mucocutaneous lesions and lymphadenopathy should point you towards which fungal infection? Paracoccidioidomycosis"
"Local, mild infections of Paracoccidioidomycosis are treated with -azole::what suffix drugs, e.g. itraconazole"
"Systemic (disseminated) infections of paracoccidioidomycosis are treated with Amphotericin B"
"San Joaquin Valley fever are buzzwords for which fungus? Coccidioidomycosis"
"Local, mild infections of Coccidioidomycosis are treated with -azole::what suffix drugs, i.e. itraconazole or fluconazole"
"Tisagenlecleucel is a CAR T-cell Therapy that is indicated for relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) by targeting the CD19 antigen"
"The main acute side effect of Tisagenlecleucel is Cytokine Release Syndrome while a potential long term risk is the potential for insertional mutagenesis"
"Rickettsia is a(n) obligate intracellular::obligate/facultative intracellular/extracellular organism"
"Rickettsia is technically a gram negative organism, however it doesn't gram stain well at all"
"Rickettsia organisms are unable to produce CoA and NAD+"
"Rickettsia are described as having a(n) coccobacilliary shape::shape"
"The Weil-Felix test is an agglutination test used to diagnose rickettsial infection"
"The Weil-Felix test tests the cross reactivity of rickettsia and proteus vulgaris"
"The general prodromal symptoms with a rickettsial infection are headache and fever"
"A unique symptom of rickettsia species is vasculitis with rash"
"The treatment for rickettsia species is doxycycline"
"The rash associated with Rickettsia prowazekii starts at the trunk and spreads towards the extremities::(rash pattern)"
"The rash from Rickettsia prowazekii spares the hands, feet, and head"
"Outbreaks of Rickettsia prowazekii are commonly seen in Military camp recruits and prisoners of war"
"The natural life cycle of Rickettsia prowazekii generally involves a vertebrate (usually squirrel) and an invertebrate host human body louse"
"epidemic typhus is caused by Rickettsia prowazekii"
"The symptoms of epidemic typhus include pneumonia encephalitis arthralgia rash ::4"
"Rickettsia rickettsia is transmitted through direct biting from the dermacentor tick::vector"
"The incubation period for Rickettsia rickettsii is somewhere between 2-14 days"
"The rash from Rickettsia rickettsii is distinctly different from that of Rickettsia prowazekii in that this rash begins at the extremities and moves towards the trunk"
"The fungus Malassezia furfur causes Pityriasis Versicolor"
"Which fungus has a \spaghetti and meatball\\" appearance on KOH prep? Malassezia furfur\""
"Malassezia furfur is a fungus part of normal skin flora, thriving in hot and humid conditions"
"Pityriasis Versicolor is characterized by hyper or hypopigmented patches on a patient's skin"
"Hyper/hypopigmented patches of Pityriasis Versicolor on the skin commonly occur on the chest and back, especially in individuals who spend a lot of time in the sun"
"Lipid degradation produces acid that damages melanocytes in Pityriasis Versicolor::what M. furfur manifestation (results in hypo/hyperpigmentation)"
"Malassezia furfur (M. furfur)::Which fungus produces melanocyte damaging acids via lipid degradation"
"Which layer of the skin does the fungus Malassezia furfur (M. furfur) reside? Stratum Corneum"
"Malassezia furfur can cause many more problems, other than just Pityriasis Versicolor, in immunocompromised patients"
"Malassezia furfur::Which fungus can infect the blood (fungicemia) of neonates receiving TPN, causing severe symptoms"
"What characteristic of Malassezia furfur makes it problematic for neonates receiving TPN? Lipophilic"
"Selenium sulfide AKA selsun Blue is the treatment of choice for Malassezia furfur (M. furfur)"
"Selenium Sulfide (Selsun Blue) is used as treatment for M. furfur::which fungus due to it promoting shedding of the stratum corneum"
"Dermatophytes::What cutaneous fungi are responsible for rashes known as Tinea"
"Where do the fungi Dermatophytes reside in the body? Skin"
"The 3 dermatophytes are: 1. Trichophyton 2. Epidermophyton 3. Microsporum"
"Tinea is commonly referred to as \ringworm\\"\""
"Tinea capitis affects the head and scalp"
"Tinea corporis affects the body"
"Tinea cruris affects the groin"
"Tinea pedis affects the foot"
"What demographic of people are at risk for Tinea (ringworm) infections? Athletes"
"Animals/pets can be a source of dermatophytes and, therefore, Tinea infection, especially in younger individuals"
"Dermatophytes cause Tinea lesions that are often pruritic (itchy)::what symptom"
"Hyphae of Tinea lesions due to dermatophytes are seen with KOH prep of skin scrapings"
"The dermatophyte Microsporum can be identified via Wood's lamp"
"What is the mainstay treatment for dermatophytes/Tinea infections? Topical -azoles (clotrimazole)"
"Onychomycosis describes dermatophyte infection of the nails"
"The oral antifungal drug Terbinafine is used to treat onychomycosis (dermatophyte infection of nails)::what dermatophyte infection"
"For more severe Tinea infections or persistent Onychomycosis (manifestations of dermatophytes), oral Griseofulvin is used"
"Griseofulvin::What drug deposits in keratin-containing tissues, such as skin and nails, and is therefore used for severe dermatophyte infections"
"Griseofulvin is associated with GI side-effects"
"A(n) Sporothrix schenckii infection is called Sporotrichosis"
"Sporothrix schenckii is classically contracted via cuts from rose thorns, as well as tree bark, bushes, and plants"
"Sporothrix schenckii is dimorphic, meaning it assumes different forms depending on the temperature of its environment"
"Branching hyphae of Sporothrix schenckii can be grown at 25 degrees celsius"
"Branching hyphae similar to that of rose bushes are classically seen in Sporothrix schenckii::which fungus?"
"The yeast of Sporothrix schenckii::which fungus takes on a(n) cigar shape under microscope"
"Sporothrix schenckii::which fungus spreads in a(n) ascend-ing pattern along the path of lymphatic drainage"
"Sporothrix schenckii will result in a local pustule, or ulcer, at the site of trauma and first entry"
"Sporotrichosis diagnosis is confirmed via culture or biopsy"
"A biopsy of a patient with sporotrichosis (sporothrix schenckii)::what fungal infection will reveal granulomas consisting of histiocytes, multinucleated giant cells and cigar-shaped budding yeast"
"What is the drug of choice for treatment of Sporotrichosis/Sporothrix schenckii infection? Itraconazole"
"What is the solution of choice for treatment of Sporotrichosis/Sporothrix schenckii infection? SSKI (saturated solution of potassium iodide)"
"Ascending lymphangitis and cigar-shaped yeast are classic manifestations of Sporothrix schenckii infection/sporotrichosis::what fungal infection"
"What is the main immune defense against Giardia? IgA produced by Peyer's Patches in the GI"
"Selective IgA deficiency is the most common 1* immunodeficiency and increases susceptibility to Giardia::which protozoal infections"
"B::B or T or Granulocyte? cell immunodeficiencies generally predispose to GI giardiasis"
"Opportunistic infections with Cryptosporidium::which bug are seen with Hyper-IgM syndrome, most commonly caused by a defective CD40L"
"Cryptosporidium oocysts::what form are often transmitted via infected water"
"Cryptosporidium spp infections are often found in HIV+ patients with CD4+ cell counts < 100/mm3"
"Giardia lamblia is a(n) flagella-ted intestinal::location non-invasive parasite responsible for most flagellated protozoan small intestine colonizations in the U.S."
"10 to 25 cysts (#) are required for Giardia lamblia infection"
"G. lamblia cysts are found in contaminated resources like day care centers, contaminated water from mountain streams during camping, etc."
"Giardia lamblia cysts become trophozoites in the duodenum when stimulated by gastric acid after ingestion"
"Is Giardia lamblia an invasive organism? No, therefore no dysentery"
"Due to villous atrophy in Giardia lamblia::which parasitic infection, deficiencies in epithelial brush border enzymes such as lactase may develop"
"G. lamblia cysts (carrier state) have 4::# nuclei"
"G. lamblia trophozoites (active state) have 2 nuclei and 4 pairs of flagella (#) and resemble a face looking back at the viewer"
"Can Giardia lamblia be removed from water through chlorination? No"
"G. lamblia is not susceptible to chlorination but can be killed by boiling the water or with iodine"
"Entamoeba histolytica has two stages: an infective 4::#-nuclei cyst stage and a(n) invasive::non-invasive/invasive trophozoite stage"
"The trophozoite stage of E. histolytica exhibits pseudopods, which allow the organism to move along the intestinal wall and take up nutrients"
"Entamoeba histolytica is most common in developing::developed or developing countries"
"The most common result of E. histolytica infection is a(n) asymptomatic (silent) carrier state where the organism is released as cysts in the stool"
"Are cysts of Entamoeba Histolytica able to survive outside of the host? Yes"
"Treatment for E. histolytica infections includes metronidazole for invasive colitis, followed by paromomycin or iodoquinol to eliminate intraluminal cysts"
"In immuno-competent individuals, Cryptosporidium infection causes a self-limiting watery diarrhea"
"Compared to Cryptosporidium causing watery diarrhea, Entamoeba histolytica::which protozoa causes bloody diarrhea"
"Compared to Cryptosporidium causing watery diarrhea, Giardia lamblia::which protozoa causes floating, fatty, foul-smelling steatorrhea"
"Diagnosis of Cryptosporidium::which protozoa occurs via microscopy of stool samples, with visualization of acid-fast::what quality oocysts"
"In immunocompromised individuals with Cryptosporidium infection, anti-retroviral therapy should be initiated since CD4 counts greater than 100 are associated with complete resolution of symptoms Nitazoxanide can be used for immunocompromised patients if CD4 recovery is slow and symptoms are severe"
"Sporothrix schenckii is a dimorphic yeast with a cigar-shaped, unequal budding yeast in human tissue, and a(n) mold form in plants (commonly rose thorns)"
"Sporothrix schenckii lesions are granulomas made of histiocytes and giant cells"
"Dermatophytes::which cutaneous fungi contain keratinase::enzyme, allowing them to subsist off keratin, a protein resistant to most organisms"
"Tinea capitis is a dermatophyte infection of the scalp, often caused by Trichophyton spp., and almost always occurs in young children::what demographic"
"Cutaneous involvement in blastomycosis::which fungus commonly manifests as a verrucous lesion with irregular borders that may mimic squamous cell carcinoma"
"Coccidioidomycosis::which fungi have a characteristic mold form containing barrel-shaped arthroconidia"
"Pharmacology: Cholestatic Drugs Obeticholic Acid is a semisynthetic bile acid used to treat Primary Biliary Cholangitis"
"Pharmacology: Cholestatic Drugs Patients using Obeticholic Acid commonly experience itching, but incorrect dosing can lead to serious liver injury"
"Pharmacology: Cholestatic Drugs Ursodeoxycholic Acid is a synthetic secondary bile acid used primarily for patients with chronic gall stones that have contraindications to surgery"
"Pharmacology: Cholestatic Drugs The rate limiting step of bile acid synthesis is done via cholesterol 7a-hydroxylase"
"Pharmacology: Cholestatic Drugs Ursodiol primarily works to break up gallstones by increasing the threshold of cholesterol needed to saturate bile salts"
"Pharmacology: Cholestatic Drugs Ursodiol primarily works in Primary Biliary Cholangitis by protecting hepatocytes against apoptosis"
"Pharmacology: Cholestatic Drugs Ursodiol must be monitored with LFT's as it increases the risk of cirrhosis"
"Candida albicans::Which fungus is the most common cause of opportunistic mycoses"
"Candida albicans is dimorphic**, meaning it assumes different forms depending on the temperature of its environment"
"Candida albicans::which fungus forms pseudohyphae and budding yeast at 20oC (cold) and germ tubes (hyphae) at 37oC (heat)"
"Candida albicans forms germ tubes (true hyphae) at 37oC"
"Candida albicans is in the yeast form with pseudo-hyphae formation at 20 degrees C"
"Which fungus is actually a reverse of the dimorphic adage, with yeast in the cold and mold in the heat? Candida albicans"
"Individuals with chronic granulomatous disease lack the enzyme  nadph oxidase and are susceptible to Candida and Aspergillus::which fungi (2) colonization due to them both being catalase-positive organisms"
"Candida albicans is normal flora of the GI tract, including the oral cavity"
"Which fungus commonly contaminates sputum cultures? Candida albicans"
"Candida albicans::which fungus causes diaper rash due to the heat and humidity within a baby's diaper"
"Oral::which location of the body candidiasis::fungal infection is seen in the immuno-compromised or those using oral steroids"
"Candida albicans::Candida albicans or Leukoplakia results in white patches in the oral cavity that can be scraped away"
"Leukoplakia::Candida albicans or Leukoplakia results in white patches in the oral cavity that cannot be scraped away"
"KOH is used to prep oral scrapings when attempting to diagnose oral candidiasis"
"Candida albicans that extends from the mouth to the esophagus is known as candidal esophagitis, which is a(n) AIDS-defining illness"
"What is the CD4+ count threshold for the development of candidal esophagitis? < 100*"
"Diabetes::what endocrine pathology predisposes individuals to Candida albicans infection"
"Antibiotics and OCPs (oral contraceptives)::which 2 classes of medications can predispose individuals to vaginal yeast infections"
"Antibiotics kill vaginal microflora, allowing microbes such as Candida albicans::which fungus to flourish"
"Candida albicans::Candida albicans or Gardnerella vaginalis does not::does/does not change the vaginal pH"
"Gardnerella vaginalis::Candida albicans or Gardnerella vaginalis does::does/does not change the vaginal pH"
"In women, vaginal candida infections do not occur when the vaginal pH is >::> or < 4"
"Candidal endocarditis::what pathology is commonly seen in IV drug users::what demographic"
"Candida albicans::which fungus is commonly found growing on heroin IV injection of the drug can therefore lead to candidal endocarditis"
"IV drug users are at an increased risk of causing candidal endocarditis, most commonly of the tricuspid valve"
"Systemic (disseminated) infections of Candida albicans are treated with Amphotericin B and Caspofungin"
"Local, mild infections of Candida albicans (for example, candidal diaper rash) are treated with topical -azole::what suffix drugs"
"Oral and Esophageal candidiasis can be treated with Nystatin"
"Peanuts and Grain crops (ex: wheat) are associated with aflatoxins produced by Aspergillus::gns flavus::sp"
"Aflatoxins are carcinogenic, especially for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma"
"Aspergillus::which fungus has acute (<45°)-angle branching hyphae with septations"
"Aspergillus::which fungus forms conidiophores with fruiting bodies"
"How is Aspergillus transmitted? Inhalation"
"Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis (ABPA) is a type I hypersensitivity reaction caused by Aspergillus fumigatus"
"Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis (ABPA) is a result of inhalation of the Aspergillus fumigatus fungus and presents with wheezing, fever and migratory pulmonary infiltrate"
"Blood tests of patients with Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis will show increased IgE"
"Aspergillomas are solid balls of fungus present in the lungs that result from Aspergillus fumigatus infection"
"Aspergillomas are associated with Tuberculosis or Klebsiella, as both pathologies have pre-existing cavities within the lungs"
"When a patient with Aspergillomas takes an upright chest X-ray, the fungal balls will be in the inferior part of the lobes, as they are gravity dependent"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis occurs due to Aspergillus fumigatus infection in immunocompromised patients"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis::Which complication of Aspergillus fumigatus invades blood vessels, disseminating rapidly throughout the body"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis will present with fever, cough and hemoptysis"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis::Which complication of Aspergillus fumigatus disseminates upon reaching the blood vessels, resulting in kidney failure"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis::Which complication of Aspergillus fumigatus disseminates upon reaching the blood vessels, resulting in endocarditis::what cardiac pathology"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis::Which complication of Aspergillus fumigatus disseminates upon reaching the blood vessels, resulting in ring enhancing brain lesions"
"Which fungal complication can present with ring enhancing lesions on CT scan? Angioinvasive aspergillosis"
"Both Mucormycosis and Aspergillus fumigatus::which two fungal infections can spread to the paranasal sinuses and result in necrosis around the nose"
"Local, mild infections of Aspergillus fumigatus::which fungus are treated with -azole::what suffix drugs (e.g. Voriconazole) or echinocandins (caspofungin)"
"In addition to medical treatment, aspergillomas::which complication of Aspergillus fumigatus will need to be surgically removed"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis is treated with Amphotericin B"
"Which fungus is encapsulated? Cryptococcus neoformans"
"A positive germ tube test is strongly indicative of Candida albicans::which fungus"
"Oral thrush of the mouth that appears as a white exudate on mucous membranes is due to candida albicans::which fungus"
"Vaginitis that presents with itching, copious secretion, and “cottage cheese” appearing clumps are signs of vaginal candidiasis"
"Aspergillus fumigatus is not dimorphic and occurs only as molds"
"Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis is an IgE-mediated type I hypersensitivity reaction that is most often seen in people with asthma or cystic fibrosis"
"Increased levels of IgE in Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis::which manifestation of Aspergillus infection leads to eosinophilia::CBC abnormality, causing intense inflammation of airways and mucus plugs in terminal bronchioles. Repeated attacks may lead to bronchiectasis"
"Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis can be treated with corticosteroids to reduce IgE response"
"The Cryptococcus capsule is made up of repeating polysaccharide capsular antigens"
"The repeating polysaccharide capsular antigens of the Cryptococci capsule are the main virulence factor of the fungus, making it anti-phagocytic"
"Cryptococcus::which fungus is found mainly in pigeon droppings and soil"
"Cryptococci enter the body via inhalation, therefore the primary infection resides in the lungs"
"Which fungus is urease-positive? Cryptococcus neoformans"
"Cryptococcus is a(n) opportunistic infection, with most symptoms occurring in immuno-compromised patients (e.g. HIV+ patients, those with malignancies, high-dose steroid therapy, etc.)"
"Cryptococcus is the most common cause of fungal meningitis"
"The 3 most common symptoms of Cryptococcal::which fungal infection are Fever Pneumonia (recall lungs are primary site of infection via inhalation) Meningitis"
"Bronchopulmonary washings can be used to diagnose Cryptococcal::which fungal infection"
"The bronchopulmonary washing of tissue samples for diagnosis of Cryptococcus::which fungus utilizes the mucicarmine (red::color) or methenamine (silver::color) stains"
"India ink stains and outlines the heavy capsule that surrounds Cryptococci fungi, giving it a unique \halo\\" appearance\""
"Latex agglutination test is used to detect the polysaccharide capsular antigen present in Cryptococci::which fungus"
"Gross pathology of Cryptococcus infection appears as \soap-bubble\\" lesions in the gray matter of the brain\""
"Treatment of Cryptococcal meningitis consists of a joint therapy of Amphotericin B and Flucytosine followed by maintenance therapy with fluconazole"
"Cryptococcus neoformans::which fungus is 5-10 micrometers in diameter and its morphology can be described as narrow-based, with unequal budding"
"Cryptococcal meningoencephalitis has a(n) indolent course that occurs over a period of one to two weeks. The most common symptoms are fever, malaise, and headache"
"Cryptococcus neoformans (along with other fungi) can be cultured on Sabouraud agar"
"Mucormycosis is caused primarily by Mucor sp. and Rhizopus"
"Immuno-compromised (e.g. those on glucocorticoids, HIV+/AIDS) and diabetic patients are especially susceptible to Mucormycosis infections"
"Rhizopus is a(n) bread mold, and is one of the major causes of Mucormycosis"
"Transmission of mucormycosis infection occurs via spore inhalation"
"What is the most common predisposing factor to mucormycosis? Diabetic ketoacidosis"
"After inhalation of Mucormycosis, the fungi have a predilection to proliferate in blood vessel walls, especially where there is excess glucose and ketone bodies"
"Mucormycosis::Which fungi's hyphae are non-septated::septated or non-septated with wide-angled (90°) branching"
"Mucormycosis will penetrate the cribriform plate of the skull, entering the brain"
"After penetrating the cribriform plate, mucormycosis continues to proliferate in the blood vessels, causing necrosis of tissues"
"Surgical excision of necrotic tissues is an important step in the treatment of Mucormycosis"
"What is the pharmacological treatment of Mucormycosis? Amphotericin B"
"Deferoxamine, which chelates both iron and aluminum, acts as a(n) siderophore for the species Rhizopus, enhancing its growth and pathogenicity. This leads to an increased risk for Mucormycosis"
"Patients with Mucormycosis::which fungal infection can present with rhinocerebral and frontal lobe abscesses"
"Cavernous sinus thrombosis is a serious complication of Mucormycosis fungal infection"
"Pneumocystis jirovecii is a fungus responsible for causing Pneumocystic pneumonia"
"Pneumocystis jirovecii has a(n) respiratory transmission"
"What are the symptoms of Pneumocystis jirovecii in the immunocompetent? Asymptomatic - None :)"
"Pneumocystis pneumonia is a(n) AIDS-defining illness that presents with a CD4+ count < 200"
"When should you start prophylaxis for Pneumocystis jirovecii? CD4+ count < 200"
"Pneumocystis pneumonia is a(n) interstitial (atypical) pneumonia"
"Does Pneumocystis pneumonia have a productive cough? No"
"Does Pneumocystis pneumonia show consolidations on chest xray? No"
"Pneumocystis pneumonia can present with a \ground-glass\\" appearance on chest xray\""
"Pneumocystis pneumonia::which opportunistic infection causes interstitial pneumonia with a ground-glass appearance on chest xray"
"Bronchoalveolar lavage is used to confirm diagnosis of Pneumocystis pneumonia"
"The bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) sample is stained with methenamine silver to identify the fungus Pneumocystis jirovecii in Pneumocystis Pneumonia"
"Pneumocystis pneumonia::infection can be said to have a \ground-glass\\" appearance on chest-xray\""
"Trimethoprim/Sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) can be used in prophylaxis and treatment of pneumocystis pneumonia in patients without sulfa drug allergies"
"Pentamidine can be used in prophylaxis and treatment of pneumocystis pneumonia in patients with sulfa drug allergies"
"Pneumocystis jirovecii, formerly Pneumocystis carinii, is an opportunistic fungi that appears as cysts containing dark oval bodies on microscopy"
"Prokaryotes::Prokaryotes or Eukaryotes have no nucleus or membrane bound organelles"
"Eukaryotes::Prokaryotes or Eukaryotes have membrane bound organelles and nuclei"
"Eukaryotes::Prokaryotes or Eukaryotes include plant and animal cells"
"Eukaryotes::Prokaryotes or Eukaryotes include Protozoa and Fungi"
"Prokaryotes::Prokaryotes or Eukaryotes include Bacteria"
"Prokaryotes' nuclear material sits freely within the cytoplasm"
"A bacteria's cell wall can be a target for the immune system and antibiotics"
"purple circles are gram positive::negative or positive"
"Red/pink organisms are gram negative::negative or positive"
"What is the difference between Gram Positive and Gram Negative bacteria? Their cell walls"
"Gram positive bacteria have a much thicker cell wall"
"Lipoteichoic Acids are present in Gram Positive Bacteria's cell walls"
"Gram Negative Bacteria have thinner cell walls with a(n) outer membrane surrounding it"
"Peptidoglycan is a major structural component of bacterial cell walls, consisting of the two sugars N-acetylglucosamine (NAG) and N-acetylmuramic acid (NAM)"
"Peptides attach to N-acetylmuramic acid (NAM)::which sugar of the Peptidoglycan on a Bacterium's cell wall, connecting the sugars together"
"Mycoplasma::which bacteria does not gram stain due to lack of a cell wall. Its cell membrane instead has sterols for stability"
"Mycobacteria::which bacteria cell walls contain mycolic acid, therefore a special Ziehl-Neelsen (acid-fast) stain is used to visualize them"
"Chlamydia::which bacteria lacks muramic acid in its cell wall, resulting in poor gram staining"
"Electron Transport and Oxidative Phosphorylation occur on the Cell membrane of Bacteria"
"What molecule present on the surface of Gram Positive bacteria drives immune response to the organism? Lipoteichoic Acid"
"Gram Negative Bacteria contain a(n) periplasm, which is a space between the cell membrane and outer membrane"
"Gram negative bacteria have enzymes within their periplasm that allow them to resist antibiotic treatment"
"What molecule present on the surface of Gram Negative bacteria drives immune response to the organism? Lipopolysaccharide"
"Lipopolysaccharide is contained on the Outer membrane of Gram Negative Bacteria"
"The three components of Lipopolysaccharide are: 1. Polysaccharide 2. Lipid A 3. O antigen"
"Which part of Lipopolysaccharide is highly toxic and triggers cytokine release? Lipid A"
"Which part of Lipopolysaccharide is a target for antibodies? O antigen"
"Bacteria sometimes secrete a(n) capsule, which is a sticky, gelatinous layer that assists the bacteria in attaching to host cells"
"Capsules of bacteria are typically water and polysaccharide, protecting against phagocytosis"
"Bacillus anthracis has a peptide capsule made of d-glutamate that allows for increased virulence due to unimpeded growth"
"The Quellung Reaction is used to test for bacteria who have a(n) capsule"
"B-cells can secrete capsular antibodies (IgG) against bacteria who secrete a(n) capsule"
"IgG antibodies bind to the bacteria's capsule, resulting in either phagocytosis (Fc receptors) or binding of complement"
"Lack of B-cells, antibodies, or complement can result in recurrent encapsulated bacterial infections"
"Asplenia can result in an increased risk of sepsis from encapsulated bacteria due to loss of splenic phagocytes"
"Bacterial capsular polysaccharides are the basis for many vaccines"
"Bacteria with irregular, fuzz layer have a(n) glycocalyx"
"Bacteria with distinct, firmly attached gelatinous layer have a(n) capsule"
"Some bacteria secrete a(n) glycocalyx::not biofilm, allowing the bacteria to stick to a surface"
"Bacterial pili and fimbria allow bacteria to adhere to surfaces and attach to other bacteria for conjugation (exchange genetic information - sex)"
"The pili/fimbria in E. coli allow for attachment to the urinary tract"
"The pili in Neisseria gonorrhoeae::which bacteria allow for antigenic variation"
"Small DNA within the cells of bacteria that replicate independently are known as plasmids"
"The flagellum of a bacterium is a long protein arm used for motility"
"The two ribosomal subunits in bacteria/prokaryotes are 50S and 30S making 70S"
"The two ribosomal subunits in eukaryotes are 60S and 40S making 80S"
"Which type of antibiotics interfere with synthesis of the 30S ribosomal subunit of bacteria? Aminoglycosides"
"Some bacteria can enter a dormant state called a(n) spore"
"When a bacteria is in a(n) spore form, it can survive long periods in extreme conditions"
"The coat of the bacterial spore is the outermost layer that is made of a(n) keratin-like protein"
"Peptidoglycans make up the middle layer, or cortex, of a bacterial spore"
"The core, or innermost layer of the bacterial spore, contains DNA, ribosomes and glycolytic enzymes"
"Dipicolinic acid is found in abundance within a bacterial spore and is thought to provide heat resistance"
"3 most common bacterial shapes Coccus/Cocci Rods aka Bacilli::... aka ... Spirochetes"
"Pairs of cocci bacteria are known as diplococci"
"Chains of cocci bacteria are known as Streptococci"
"Bunches/Clusters of cocci bacteria are known as Staphylococci"
"Most cocci are gram positive, e.g. streptococcus, staphylococcus"
"Neisseria meningitidis/gonorrhoeae are gram negative diplococci::specific"
"Moraxella catarrhalis are gram negative diplococci"
"Most rods (and coccobacillus) are gram negative"
"Corynebacterium is a gram positive rod"
"Clostridium is a gram positive rod"
"Listeria is a gram positive rod"
"Bacillus (anthrax, cereus) is a gram positive rod"
"Actinomyces and Nocardia are bacteria that have a branching or filamentous shape"
"Treponema (syphilis), Borrelia (Lyme disease), and Leptospira (leptospirosis) are bacteria that have a(n) spirochete shape"
"Vibrio cholerae is a bacterium that has a(n) vibrio shape"
"2 common pleomorphic::shape bacteria are Rickettsia and Chlamydia"
"Purple bacteria of a gram stain are gram positive"
"Red bacteria of a gram stain are gram negative"
"The thick cell wall of peptidoglycan in gram positive bacteria holds the crystal violet of the gram stain in place"
"Intra-cellular bacteria do not gram stain well, including Rickettsia, Chlamydia and Legionella"
"The Giemsa stain enters cells and stains nucleic acids"
"The acid-fast stain is also known as Ziehl-Neelsen stain and contains carbolfuchsin"
"The Ziehl-Neelsen stain is used to stain the bacteria mycobacterium (e.g. TB, leprosy) and Nocardia, as well as the protozoa Cryptosporidium (its oocysts)"
"Silver (methenamine)::... aka ... stain is used to stain the fungi Pneumocystis pneumonia and Coccidioides (coccidioidomycosis), as well as the bacteria Legionella and H. pylori"
"The India Ink stain is mostly used to identify the fungus Cryptococcus neoformans"
"Which bacteria produces Golden/Yellow pigments? Staph Aureus"
"Which bacteria produces Blue-green pigments? Due to? Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Pyocyanin + Pyoverdin"
"Which bacteria produces red pigments? Serratia"
"Which bacteria produces yellow-orange pigments? Actinomyces"
"Actinomyces is a bacteria that cements together, forming \yellow sulfur granules\\"\""
"Selective::Selective/Non-selective media favors the growth of particular microbial organism while inhibiting growth of all other organisms"
"Thayer-Martin Media is a(n) selective media that only grows Neisseria"
"What is the most commonly used non-selective culture media? Blood agar"
"Enriched culture media have special nutrients added so that many bugs will grow"
"Blood agar is a(n) differential culture media because it allows us to identify bacteria based on their hemolytic pattern"
"Indicator (differential) media can also yield color changes due to differences in metabolism of certain organisms"
"Fastidious bacteria do not grow on standard media"
"What are two examples of fastidious bacteria? H. influenzae Legionella"
"Blood agar contains mammalian blood Non-selective (any bacteria can grow)::Selective or Non-selective Enriched (blood)::Enriched or Non-enriched Differential due to hemolysis pattern::Differential or Non-differential"
"The beta hemolysis pattern on blood agar is present with full lysis of RBCs"
"The alpha hemolysis pattern on blood agar is present with partial lysis of RBCs"
"The gamma hemolysis pattern on blood agar is present with lack of lysis of RBCs"
"A = beta hemolytic pattern B = alpha hemolytic pattern C = gamma hemolytic pattern"
"Blood agar is commonly used to differentiate species of streptococcus"
"Pseudomonas::which gram negative rod is β-hemolytic"
"Which gram positive cocci is also β-hemolytic? (besides streptococcus) Staph Aureus"
"What culture media contains RBCs that are lysed via heating? Chocolate Agar"
"Chocolate Agar contains NAD+ (factor V) and hematin (factor X) which are release when the RBCs are lysed"
"Chocolate Agar is used to grow H. influenzae and N. gonorrhoeae"
"H. influenzae is considered a fastidious bacteria because it needs NAD+ (factor V) and hematin (factor X) to grow"
"H. influenzae will grow on blood agar if Staph Aureus is present and causing β-hemolysis"
"Thayer-Martin Media contains vancomycin to kill gram positive organisms"
"Thayer-Martin Media contains Trimethoprim and Colistin (polymixin) to kill gram negative* organisms"
"Thayer-Martin Media contains Nystatin to kill fungi"
"Bordet-Gengou Agar is a potato extract used to grow Bordetella pertussis"
"Regan-Lowe medium is made of charcoal, blood and antibiotic and used to grow Bordetella pertussis"
"Loeffler’s Media/Tellurite Plate is used to identify Corynebacterium diphtheriae"
"Mycoplasma pneumonia requires cholesterol to grow, which is present in Eaton's Agar"
"MacConkey's Agar is a selective media for gram negative bacteria which contains bile salts to inhibit growth of gram positives"
"MacConkey's agar can also be used to differentiate lactose fermenters"
"Eosin-Methylene Blue Agar has a similar function to that of MacConkey agar, as it also inhibits gram positive bacteria growth"
"Eosin-Methylene Blue Agar will have lactose fermenting colonies (e.g. E. coli) appear as a green metallic sheen"
"Sorbitol MacConkey Agar is used to detect the O157 strains of E. coli"
"Buffered Charcoal Yeast Extract (BCYE) Agar is used to identify Legionella"
"4 Bacterial Growth Environments Obligate Aerobes - environment w/ O2 Obligate Anaerobes - environment w/o O2 Facultative Anaerobes - either w/ or w/o O2 Intracellular bacteria"
"Superoxide dismutase and Catalase are two enzymes contained in aerobic organisms"
"Oxygen is the final electron acceptor during cellular respiration in obligate aerobes (bacteria type)"
"Obligate Aerobes::Obligate Aerobes or Anaerobes can generate lots of energy through cellular respiration using O2"
"4 common obligate aerobes: Nocardia Pseudomonas Aeruginosa Mycobacterium tuberculosis Bacillus (anthracis and cereus)"
"Obligate Anaerobes::Obligate Aerobes or Anaerobes lack the enzymes Superoxide Dismutase and Catalase"
"Aminoglycosides are antibiotics that require O2 to work, therefore do not work on obligate anaerobic bacteria"
"Obligate Anaerobes::Obligate Aerobes or Anaerobes are common among the normal flora of the gut and mouth"
"Obligate Anaerobes::Obligate Aerobes or Anaerobes use fermentation to generate ATP"
"The byproducts of anaerobic::aerobic or anaerobic fermentation are gases (CO2, H2) and short chain fatty acids (e.g. lactic acid)"
"Actinomyces is a(n) obligate anaerobe::obligate aerobe or anaerobe that is typically found in the gums and causes dental abscesses"
"Bacteroides fragilis is a(n) obligate anaerobe::obligate aerobe or anaerobe that is typically found in the gut and causes abdominal abscesses"
"Clostridium difficile; botulinum; perfringens; tetani are all obligate anaerobes::obligate aerobes or anaerobes"
"Clindamycin is used to treat anaerobic infections above the diaphragm"
"Metronidazole is used to treat anaerobic infections below the diaphragm"
"Bacteroides fragilis is an anaerobe that can enter abdominal abscesses and is resistant to many antibiotics"
"Treatment for abdominal abscesses include Metronidazole (B. fragilis is responsive) and a gram (-) antibiotic"
"Aspiration pneumonia occurs when mouth anaerobic::aerobic or anaerobic bacteria enter the lungs"
"Clindamycin is the drug of choice to treat aspiration pneumonia"
"Facultative Anaerobes::which type of bacteria can live without oxygen but use it if available"
"Do facultative anaerobes perform cellular respiration or fermentation? Both :)"
"Obligate intracellular bacteria cannot synthesize their own ATP, instead depending on the host for supply"
"Rickettsia rickettsi is an obligate intracellular bacteria that causes Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever"
"Chlamydia is an obligate intracellular bacteria that is a common cause of STDs"
"Brucella*, Francisella, and Yersinia pestis are zoonotic facultative intracellular bacteria that can live in macrophages"
"Facultative intracellular bacteria are bacteria that can live in other cells if necessary"
"Neisseria is a facultative intracellular bacterium that can live in urethral (and not intestinal) epithelial cells"
"Salmonella and Shigella are both facultative intracellular bacterium that can live in intestinal cells"
"Bacterial features that allow evasion of host defenses are known as Virulence factors"
"Protein A is a virulence factor part of the peptidoglycan cell wall of Staph Aureus"
"Protein A inhibits the phagocytosis of Staph Aureus by binding to the Fc portion of IgG antibodies"
"IgA is important for mucosal immunity"
"IgA protease::which virulence factor cleaves IgA and allows for colonization of mucosal surfaces"
"IgA protease is a virulence factor common in Streptococcus pneumonia, H. influenzae Type B, Neisseria spp."
"M protein::what surface virulence factor is found on the surface of group A strep (streptococcus pyogenes)"
"M protein::which virulence factor binds factor H and breaks down C3-convertase"
"M protein::which virulence factor shares properties with myosin, which may result in its causing of Rheumatic heart disease"
"M protein is responsible for post-strep throat complications (e.g. glomerulonephritis or Rheumatic heart disease)"
"Endotoxin::Exo or Endotoxin is a component of gram negative bacteria cell walls"
"Endotoxin::Exo or Endotoxin is released when bacteria die"
"Exotoxin::Exo or Endotoxin are proteins secreted by gram positive and negative bacteria"
"Endotoxin::Exo or Endotoxin are composed of a lipopolysaccharide complex (LPS)"
"Lipopolysaccharide Endotoxins::Exo or Endotoxins have a(n) Lipid A core responsible for their toxicity and a(n) O antigen terminal end that varies among bacterial strains"
"Exotoxins::Exo or Endotoxins are a two component \A-B\\" polypeptide\""
"Exotoxins::Exo or Endotoxins have a toxic A component and a(n) B component that binds to cell surfaces"
"Which part of endotoxin is targeted by the immune system? O antigen"
"Endotoxin present on gram negative bacteria can cause fever and shock"
"Endotoxin (part of LPS) triggers the release of which two cytokines? TNF and IL-1"
"Endotoxin is heat stable"
"Endotoxin generates a(n) weak::strength antibody response"
"Gram Negative Bacteria activate macrophages when Lipopolysaccharide (endotoxin) binds to CD14 and TLR4"
"Endotoxin/Lipopolysaccharide binding to CD14 of Macrophages releases IL-1, IL-6, TNF-a, and NO (proinflammatory cytokines)"
"Endotoxin/Lipopolysaccharide of Gram Negative Bacteria can activate the complement system, resulting in release of C3a and C5a"
"Endotoxin/Lipopolysaccharide of Gram Negative Bacteria can activate tissue factor, resulting in coagulation and possible DIC (disseminated intravascular coagulation)"
"Some Gram Negative Bacteria have lipooligosaccharide, which lacks a(n) O antigen"
"Lipooligosaccharide (LOS) is an endotoxin found on non-enteric gram negative bacteria, e.g. Neisseria meningitidis"
"Meningococcemia results from an immune reaction to the endotoxin of Neisseria meningitidis"
"Gram negative sepsis can result when a bug like E. coli enters the blood stream from a rupture in the intestinal wall"
"The exotoxin Diphtheria toxin causes ADP-ribosylation (and therefore inhibition) of elongation factor-2 (EF2)"
"Exotoxin A is the exotoxin of Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Exotoxin A causes ADP-ribosylation (and therefore inhibition) of Elongation Factor-2"
"The shiga toxin is an exotoxin secreted by Shigella"
"The shiga toxin of Shigella binds the 60S subunit of ribosomes, inhibiting protein synthesis"
"Shigella::Shigella or EHEC invades the GI mucosal cells, resulting in infectious diarrhea"
"Enterohemorrhagic E. Coli (EHEC) produces a \Shiga-like\\" toxin\""
"Enterohemorrhagic E. Coli (EHEC) - classic serotype is O157:H7"
"When the \Shiga-like\\" toxin of Enterohemorrhagic E. Coli (EHEC) enters systemic circulation"
"Shigella and EHEC (Enterohemorrhagic E. coli) both produce shiga toxins that result in bloody diarrhea"
"EHEC (Enterohemorrhagic E. Coli)::Shigella or EHEC (Enterohemorrhagic E. Coli)'s primary MOA is secretion of shiga toxin causing disease"
"The amount of Cl-::what ion secretion by GI mucosal cells determines H2O secretion"
"Fluid secretion in the GI tract occurs when the Gs protein::which G-protein is stimulated, activating adenylyl cyclase::which enzyme, increasing cAMP production and opening the CFTR channel allowing Cl- ion secretion"
"Enterotoxigenic E. Coli (ETEC) is responsible for two exotoxins, Heat labile toxin (LT) and Heat stable toxin (ST)"
"Heat labile toxin::Heat labile or Heat stable toxin activates adenylyl cyclase in the gut, thereby increasing water secretion and causing diarrhea"
"Heat stable toxin::Heat labile or Heat stable toxin activates guanylyl cyclase in the gut, thereby increasing cGMP secretion"
"Heat stable toxin::Heat labile or Heat stable toxin inhibits NaCl absorption and stimulates Cl- secretion, which results in more water in the gut and diarrhea"
"Bacillus Anthracis makes three exotoxic proteins; protective antigen (PA), lethal factor (LF), and edema factor (EF)"
"What exotoxin is secreted by Vibrio Cholerae? Cholera toxin"
"Cholera toxin permanently activates Gs of GI mucosal cells, resulting in Cl- ion secretion and \rice water\\" diarrhea\""
"Bordetella pertussis secretes the exotoxin Pertussis Toxin"
"Pertussis toxin::which exotoxin inhibits a(n) Gi protein within neutrophils, resulting in increased levels of cAMP within the neutrophils"
"Increased cAMP via Pertussis Toxin results in impaired recruitment of neutrophils"
"SNARE proteins are present on neurotransmitter vesicles, allowing the vesicles to dock and release the NT into the synaptic cleft"
"Inhibition of SNARE proteins inhibits docking of neurotransmitter vesicles and ultimately neurotransmitter release"
"Clostridium tetani produces the exotoxin Tetanospasmin"
"The exotoxin Tetanospasmin inhibits inhibitory::excitatory or inhibitory neurons, resulting in lack of GABA and Glycine release"
"Tetanospasmin::which exotoxin works in the Renshaw cells of the spinal cord"
"Clostridium botulinum produces the exotoxin Botulinum toxin"
"Clostridium tetani results in rigid muscles"
"Clostridium botulinum results in floppy muscles"
"Botulinum toxin::which exotoxin inhibits Acetylcholine release at the neuromuscular junction, resulting in lack of muscle contraction"
"Clostridium perfringens causes \gas gangrene\\" when it enters wounds\""
"Clostridium perfringens produces the exotoxin Alpha toxin, which is a(n) Phospholipase C enzyme"
"Alpha toxin::which exotoxin degrades phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin, resulting in myonecrosis of the muscles"
"Along with muscle breakdown, the exotoxin Alpha Toxin also results in decreased muscle blood flow"
"Streptococcus Pyogenes can cause strep throat, rheumatic fever, and glomerulonephritis"
"Streptococcus pyogenes produces the exotoxin Streptolysin O (cytolysin)::... aka ..."
"What antibodies are elevated following a strep infection? Anti-streptolysin O (ASO) antibodies"
"A toxoid is an inactivated bacterial exo::exo/endo-toxin used for vaccination"
"Diphtheria and Tetanus are toxoid vaccines; Pertussis is acellular (therefore partially toxoid)"
"Exo-toxin genes are typically not part of a chromosome, and instead are encoded by plasmids and bacteriophages"
"Superantigens are exotoxins that cause a massive amount of T-cell activation"
"Superantigens fully attach to an antigen present cell's (APC) MHC II::MHC I or II and a T-cell's TCR, stimulating a large T-cell response"
"Superantigens result in a large release of cytokines, leading to massive vasodilation/hypotension and shock"
"Which two bacteria can synthesize superantigens? Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes"
"Staphylococcus aureus synthesizes the superantigen Toxic Shock Syndrome Toxin-1 (TSST-1)"
"Streptococcus pyogenes synthesizes the superantigens Pyrogenic exotoxin A or C"
"Superantigens result in toxic shock syndrome"
"Streptococcus pyogenes' pyrogenic exotoxin B is often associated with necrotizing fasciitis"
"Toxic Shock syndrome will present with fever, shock (hypo-tension) and a diffuse red rash"
"Exotoxin generates a(n) strong::strength antibody response"
"Exotoxin is heat labile"
"3 phases of bacterial growth curve: lag phase, growth/log phase, stationary phase"
"During the lag phase of bacterial growth, there is no increase in number of cells since you added them to the culture"
"The growth phase of bacterial growth is dependent on the generation/doubling time"
"The generation/doubling time is the time is takes for the number of bacterial cells to double"
"During the stationary phase of bacterial growth bacteria are continuing to grow but also starting to die"
"What phase of bacterial growth do antibiotics have their greatest effect? Growth"
"Transformation is a way that bacteria uptake DNA from their surrounding environment"
"Addition of DNAase will degrade any naked DNA present in a culture medium, inhibiting any bacterial transformation"
"Conjugation involves bacteria extending a sex pilus, allowing exchange of DNA between two different strains"
"High frequency recombinant (Hfr) strains of bacteria will take plasmids and incorporate them into their cellular DNA"
"When Hfr strains of bacteria undergo conjugation, they transfer their bacterial genome with the plasmid to the recipient"
"In normal conjugation, is there transfer of bacterial chromosomal DNA? No - Normal conjugation involves transfer of plasmids only"
"Transformation::which bacterial genetics phenomenon is used to amplify DNA"
"Conjugation of High Frequency bacterial strains allows us to perform genetic mapping"
"A(n) bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria"
"Transduction describes the transfer of DNA from one bacteria to another via a bacteriophage"
"What are the two types of bacterial transduction? Generalized and Specialized"
"Generalized::Generalized or Specialized bacterial DNA transduction occurs when a(n) lytic::lytic or lysogenic phage infects the bacterium"
"Specialized::Generalized or Specialized bacterial DNA transduction occurs when a(n) lysogenic::lytic or lysogenic phage infects the bacterium"
"Generalized::Generalized or Specialized bacterial DNA transduction occurs when bacterial chromosomal DNA is packaged in the phage, resulting in transfer of bacterial DNA with lysis of the bacteria"
"Specialized::Generalized or Specialized bacterial DNA transduction stems from incorporation of viral DNA into bacterial DNA; excision of viral DNA results in excision of bacterial DNA as well"
"The Lytic::Lytic or Lysogenic cycle is when a phage injects nuclear material into preexisting bacterial DNA, multiples and then lyses the cell, releasing the new viruses"
"The Lysogenic::Lytic or Lysogenic cycle is when a phage injects nuclear material into preexisting bacterial DNA and it is incorporated into the host DNA"
"Phages that only replicate via the lytic cycle are known as virulent"
"Phages that replicate via both the lytic and lysogenic cycle are known as temperate"
"Lysogeny allows for non-toxic strains of DNA to obtain bacterial toxins"
"These 5 bacterial toxins depend on lysogeny in order to be secreted by their corresponding bacteria: Group A strep Erythrogenic toxin (causes scarlet fever) Botulinum Toxin Cholera Toxin Diphtheria Toxin Shiga Toxin"
"Which 5 bacterial toxins depend on lysogeny in order to be secreted by their corresponding bacteria? Group A strep Erythrogenic toxin (causes scarlet fever) Botulinum Toxin Cholera Toxin Diphtheria Toxin Shiga Toxin::G, B, C, D, S"
"Transposition describes a(n) transposon of bacterial DNA that can \jump\\" from one location to another (e.g. bacterial DNA or even a plasmid)\""
"In Transposition of bacterial DNA, a(n) transposon can move to a(n) plasmid, allowing transfer to another bacterium via conjugation"
"Transposition of bacterial DNA allows for transfer of bacterial DNA amongst different strains, such as resistance to antibiotics"
"Conjugation of normal bacteria involves transfer of plasmids only"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: First split into Bacilli, Cocci and Branching, Filamentous"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Bacilli and Branching, Filamentous split into aerobic and anaerobic"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Gram Positive Cocci are either anaerobic or facultative anaerobes (O2)"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Cocci split into catalase negative and catalase positive"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Aerobic Bacilli include Listeria, Bacillus, Corynebacterium"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Aerobic Bacilli include Listeria, Bacillus, Corynebacterium"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Anaerobic Bacilli include Clostridium, Propionibacterium"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Anaerobic Bacilli include Clostridium, Propionibacterium"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Aerobic Branching/Filamentous include Nocardia"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Anaerobic Branching/Filamentous include Actinomyces"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Which Branching/Filamentous is weakly acid-fast Nocardia::Actinomyces/Nocardia"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Catalase Positive Cocci - Staphylococcus"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Catalase Negative Cocci - Streptococcus"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: What is used to differentiate between different strains of Staphylococcus? Coagulase test"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: What is used to differentiate between different strains of Streptococcus? Hemolysis pattern"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Staphylococcus Coagulase Positive - Staph Aureus"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Staphylococcus Coagulase Negative is further broken into Novobiocin sensitivity (resistant or sensitive)"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Staphylococcus Coagulase Negative Novobiocin Resistant - Staphylococcus saprophyticus"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Staphylococcus Coagulase Negative Novobiocin Sensitive - Staphylococcus epidermidis"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus β-hemolysis is further broken down via Bacitracin sensitivity (resistant/sensitive)"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus β-hemolysis Bacitracin Resistant - Streptococcus agalactiae (group B strep)"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus β-hemolysis Bacitracin Sensitive - Streptococcus pyogenes (group A strep)"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus alpha-hemolysis is further broken down via Optochin sensitivity"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus alpha-hemolysis Optochin sensitive - Streptococcus pneumonia"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus alpha-hemolysis Optochin resistant - Streptococcus viridans (mutans and mitis)"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus gamma-hemolysis are separated via bile and NaCl growth"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus gamma-hemolysis, bile and salt::bile and salt/bile only - Enterococcus (Group D strep)"
"Gram Positive Algorithm: Streptococcus gamma-hemolysis, bile only::bile and salt/bile only - Streptococcus bovis"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: First split into Diplococci, Coccobacilli, Bacilli and Comma-shaped rods"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Diplococci are aerobic::aerobic/anaerobic organisms"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Diplococci::shape are further split via whether or not there is maltose utilization"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Diplococci with::with or without maltose metabolism - Neisseria meningitidis"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Diplococci without::with or without maltose metabolism - Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Moraxella"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Coccobacilli includes H. influenzae, Pasteurella, Brucella, Bordetella pertussis, Francisella tularensis"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Coccobacilli includes H. influenzae, Pasteurella, Brucella, Bordetella pertussis, Francisella tularensis"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli are further split via lactose fermentation"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are::are/are not lactose fermenters are further split into whether they ferment fast or slow"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are not::are/are not lactose fermenters are further split into whether they contain cytochrome oxidase"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are fast lactose fermenters include Klebsiella, E. coli, Enterobacter"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are fast lactose fermenters include Klebsiella, E. coli, Enterobacter"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are slow lactose fermenters include Citrobacter, Serratia"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are slow lactose fermenters include Citrobacter, Serratia"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are not lactose fermenters and are Oxidase Positive - Pseudomonas"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are not lactose fermenters and are Oxidase Negative are further split based on H2S production on TSI agar"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are not lactose fermenters and are Oxidase Negative, H2S production on TSI agar negative - Shigella, Yersinia"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Bacilli who are not lactose fermenters and are Oxidase Negative, H2S production on TSI agar positive - salmonella, proteus"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: All comma-shaped rods are cytochrome oxidase positive::positive or negative"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Comma-shaped rod, grows at 42°C - Campylobacter jejuni"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Comma-shaped rod, grows on alkaline media - Vibrio cholerae"
"Gram Negative Algorithm: Comma-shaped rod, produces urease - Helicobacter pylori"
"The process of decreasing pathogenic organism counts to safe levels is known as disinfection"
"The process of inactivation of self-propagating biological entities is known as sterilization"
"Autoclaves work to sterilize equipment by using pressurized steam"
"Alcohols and Chlorhexidine work by denaturing proteins and disrupting cell membranes"
"Hydrogen peroxide works via a(n) free radical oxidation mechanism"
"Iodine and iodophors work by halogenation of DNA, RNA and proteins"
"What methods of disinfection/sterilization are definitively sporicidal? Hydrogen peroxide and Chlorine"
"What methods of disinfection/sterilization are not sporicidal? Alcohols, Chlorhexidine, Quarternary Amines::3"
"Staphylococcus aureus is gram positive"
"Staphylococcus aureus is catalase positive"
"Staphylococcus aureus infection can cause pneumonia::what respiratory pathology with patchy infiltrate on CXR"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with acute endocarditis due to staphylococcus aureus? IV drug users"
"IV drug users::what demographic are susceptible to acute::acute or subacute bacterial endocarditis of the tricuspid valve from staphylococcus aureus::most common cause?"
"Staphylococcus aureus::which bug is the most common cause of osteomyelitis::bone pathology"
"Toxic shock syndrome can occur from leaving a wound packing in too long, or a tampon in too long"
"A positive Nikolsky sign is when minor pressure induces skin separation"
"Staphylococcus aureus can secrete the exotoxin exfoliative toxin, destroying keratinocyte attachments in the stratum granulosum and resulting in scalded-skin syndrome"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is Pernicious anemia? Type II HSR"
"The enterotoxins of Staphylococcus aureus are preformed, therefore they have a rapid-onset of action"
"Colchicine is indicated for pericarditis, a condition that manifests with positional sharp chest pain"
"Pseudotumor Cerebri (aka Idiopathic Intracranial Hypertension) causes a palsy of what oculomotor nerve? CN VI "
"Neisseria are gram negative diplococci"
"Neisseria::Which species of gram negative cocci are oxidase positive"
"Neisseria can be grown on chocolate agar and thayer-martin media"
"Patients with C5b-C9 deficiency (complement) are unable to form the MAC (membrane attack complex) leading to increased Neisseria infections"
"Which species of Neisseria ferments glucose only? Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"Neisseria meningitidis colonizes the nasopharynx first"
"Patients with sickle cell disease and asplenic patients are at a high risk of infection of Neisseria meningitidis"
"Neisseria spp. contains lipooligosaccharides (LOS) with strong endotoxin activity"
"Lipooligosaccharide of Neisseria spp. causes a massive inflammatory response"
"Lipooligosaccharide of Neisseria meningitidis stimulates in-creased vascular permeability, resulting in thrombocytopenia::platelet levels and resultant petechial rash"
"Capillary leakage seen in Neisseria meningitidis infection can result in hypovolemia and shock"
"The shock and resulting vasoconstriction from Neisseria meningitidis results in adrenal hemorrhage and ultimately Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome"
"Persons in close contact with an individual with Neisseria meningitidis infection are given prophylactic rifampin, ciprofloxacin or ceftriaxone"
"Which bacteria is a common cause of STI and is facultative intracellular in PMNs? Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"\Violin-string adhesions\\" to the liver are characteristic of Fitz-Hugh-Curtis Syndrome that arises from disseminated Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection of the peritoneum\""
"Fitz-Hugh-Curtis Syndrome results from the spread of PID (pelvic inflammatory disease) into the peritoneum"
"Chlamydia::which STI spp. are obligate::facultative or obligate intracellular bacteria"
"Due to Chlamydia spp. being obligate intracellular bacteria, they gram stain poorly::well or poorly"
"Can Chlamydia spp. produce its own ATP? No"
"Chlamydia spp. cell walls lack muramic acid"
"1st stage of Chlamydia spp. life cycle: elementary"
"2nd stage of Chlamydia spp. life cycle: reticular"
"Which life cycle stage of Chlamydia spp. is extracellular? Elementary body"
"Which life cycle stage of Chlamydia spp. is intracellular? Reticular Body"
"Which life cycle stage of Chlamydia spp. undergoes replication? Reticular Body"
"Lysis of the cell results in Chlamydia spp. returning back to the elementary body from the reticular body"
"Which form of Chlamydia spp. is infectious? Elementary body"
"Cells infected with Chlamydia spp. will show inclusion/reticulate bodies under microscope"
"What stain is used to visualize Chlamydia spp.? Giemsa"
"Chlamydia::which STI spp. is commonly diagnosed via NAAT nucleic-acid amplification test"
"What is the most commonly reported bacterial STI in the United States? Chlamydia trachomatis Types D-K"
"Chlamydia trachomatis has 3 common groups of serotypes: Types A, B, C; Types D-K, Types L1, L2, L3"
"Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes D-K and L1-L3 cause a STI"
"Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes D-K::which bacteria that causes an STI are characterized by a(n) watery discharge"
"Neonatal Conjunctivitis is a late (1-2 weeks) ocular infection seen in neonates due to Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes D-K infection during childbirth"
"Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes D-K infected neonates can develop neonatal pneumonia, with a characteristic staccato cough and eosino-philia"
"Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes L1, L2, L3 cause Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV)"
"Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is characterized by late::early or late tender inguinal lymphadenopathy"
"Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is characterized by early::early or late non-tender ulcers on genitals"
"Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is treated with doxycycline"
"What is the most common cause of blindness worldwide? Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes A, B, C (aka trachoma)::...aka..."
"Hand to eye contact and fomites can transmit Chlamydia trachomatis serotypes A, B, C (trachoma)"
"Chlamydia trachomatis can cause reactive arthritis (aka Reiter syndrome), most commonly of the sacroiliac joint"
"Chlamydia trachomatis can cause Reiter syndrome, which presents with the triad of uveitis/conjunctivitis, urethritis, and arthritis"
"Chlamydophila pneumoniae::Which strain of Chlamydia causes atypical (walking) pneumonia most commonly in the elderly::which demographic"
"Chlamydophila psittaci::Which strain of Chlamydia causes atypical (walking) pneumonia most commonly transmitted by bird droppings"
"Oral macrolides must be given to treat trachoma (Chlamydia trachomatis serotype A, B, C)"
"Chlamydia infection should be treated as if the patient also has which STI? Gonorrhea"
"Treatment for Chlamydia includes azithromycin (first-line), doxycycline (second) and ceftriaxone for possible concurrent N. gonorrhoeae infection"
"The chlamydial::which bug's cell wall lacks classic peptidoglycan (due to reduced muramic acid), rendering β-lactam antibiotics ineffective"
"Treponema pallidum is a(n) spirochete::shape and may be described as \spiral-shaped\\"\""
"Darkfield microscopy is needed for direct visualization of Treponema pallidum"
"VDRL is the typical screening test used for diagnosing Primary Treponema pallidum"
"VDRL and RPR are the typical screening tests used for diagnosing Secondary Treponema pallidum"
"A positive screening test for Treponema pallidum (via VDRL or RPR) is confirmed via FTA-ABS (fluorescent treponemal antibody-absorption)"
"Primary syphilis is characterized by a(n) painless::painless/painful genital::location chancre"
"Secondary syphilis is a(n) systemic disease, no longer localized to the genital region"
"Secondary syphilis is characterized by a(n) maculopapular::description,  copper/red::color rash on the palms and soles weeks to months after infection"
"Secondary syphilis presents with condyloma lata, which are raised, infectious gray-white wart-like lesions on mucous membranes (mouth, perineum)"
"Spirochetes of Treponema pallidum can be visualized inside condyloma lata/latum of secondary syphilis via darkfield microscopy"
"Gummas of tertiary syphilis are characterized as soft growths with firm necrotic centers"
"Gummas of tertiary syphilis can occur on the skin, bones or internal organs"
"Tertiary syphilis can present with aortitis, particularly of the ascending thoracic aorta"
"Tertiary syphilis can present with aortitis, with a characteristic \tree-barking\\" appearance\""
"Tertiary syphilis can present with aortitis, complete with aneurysm of the ascending aorta due to endarteritis and resultant aortic valve regurgitation"
"Tertiary syphilis destroys the vasa vasorum, or blood vessels that supply the vessel wall of the aorta"
"Tertiary syphilis can result in Tabes Dorsalis, or demyelination of the dorsal column and roots"
"Tabes Dorsalis is characterized by loss of deep tendon reflexes (DTRs)::clinical finding due to degeneration of the dorsal roots"
"Tabes Dorsalis is characterized by positive romberg sign due to loss of proprioception"
"Tabes Dorsalis is characterized by charcot joints due to loss of proprioception"
"Argyll-Robertson pupil is a complication of Tertiary syphilis where the eye accommodates to near objects but does NOT react to light"
"Congenital syphilis occurs when Treponema pallidum is transmitted trans-placentally from a pregnant woman to her fetus"
"Congenital Syphilis is characterized by \Saber Shins\\""
"Congenital Syphilis is characterized by \saddle-shaped\\" nose\""
"Congenital Syphilis is characterized by Mulberry molars, characterized by enamel outgrowth"
"Congenital Syphilis is characterized by congenital deafness and sensorineural hearing loss due to CN VIII damage"
"What is the treatment for all stages of Syphilis? Benzathine Penicillin G (intramuscular)"
"Administration of Penicillin for Syphilis may lead to the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction"
"The Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction is a response to the release of endotoxin-like factors from the lysis of Treponema pallidum organisms that manifests as fevers, chills, and myalgias"
"A mnemonic used to remember the infectious agents which may cross the placenta and cause congenital infection is ToRCHHeS: Toxoplasmosis Rubella CMV HIV Herpes virus Syphilis (treponema pallidum) VZV Parvovirus"
"Viruses contain either DNA or RNA surrounded by a(n) capsid"
"Do viruses have metabolic activity? No"
"The two most common shapes of viral capsids are icosahedral and helical"
"Viruses can either be \naked\\" or \\"enveloped\\"\""
"All naked viruses have icosahedral capsids"
"Enveloped viruses can have either an icosahedral or helical shape (whereas naked viruses are all icosahedral)"
"The lipid membrane of a host cell can be acquired by the virus and is used as the viral envelope"
"Viral glycoproteins embedded in the surface of the envelope can be used to bind to host cells; are also antigens for the immune system"
"Most RNA virus genomes are single-stranded and linear::circular/linear"
"Most RNA viruses replicate in the cytoplasm"
"RNA viruses can be distinguished via their polarity, either (+) sense or (-) sense"
"Positive sense RNA viruses carry RNA that is structurally similar to mRNA"
"Positive sense RNA can be used immediately by the cell for gene translation and protein synthesis"
"Negative sense RNA viruses must first be converted to positive sense RNA in order to be used by the host cell for protein synthesis"
"Positive sense RNA are oriented in the 5' to 3' direction"
"Negative sense RNA are oriented in the 3' to 5' direction"
"Retroviruses (e.g. HIV) are diploid single-stranded RNA viruses"
"Retroviruses (e.g. HIV) utilize the enzyme reverse transcriptase to convert their diploid linear stranded RNA genome to dsDNA"
"DNA viral genomes can either be circular or linear and are usually double-stranded"
"Parvovirus is the only DNA virus that has a single-stranded genome"
"Which type of viral genome (dsDNA, (+) RNA, (-) RNA) is not infectious by itself? (-) RNA"
"The vaccines for Hepatitis B and HPV 6, 11, 16, 18::which two viruses are recombinant vaccines"
"The vaccine for Hepatitis B Virus uses recombinant HbsAg"
"HIV is a retrovirus, which is a(n) di-ploid single-stranded (+)::(+)/(-) RNA::RNA or DNA virus"
"Does HIV have an envelope? Yes"
"HIV has two strands of RNA in its genome"
"The gag gene of HIV encodes p24 and p17"
"The env gene of HIV encodes gp120 and gp41"
"gp41 is the transmembrane protein of HIV, mediating viral-cell fusion and syncytia formation"
"gp120 is the outer glycoprotein of HIV"
"gp120 of HIV binds CD4, and the co-receptors CXCR4 (primarily on T cells), and CCR5 (primarily on macrophages)"
"The pol gene of HIV encodes the enzymes reverse transcriptase, aspartate protease, and integrase"
"HIV is considered a ToRCHeS infection and can be transmitted through the placenta"
"HIV initially infects what cell type? Macrophages"
"HIV later on infects what cell type? CD4+ Helper T cells"
"The prodrome (onset) of HIV consists of flu or mono-like symptoms with cervical lymphadenopathy and fever"
"The clinical latency period of HIV infection can last 10 years"
"Stage 1 HIV is characterized by wide dissemination to lymphoid organs"
"Stage 2 HIV is characterized by clinical latency. CD4+ count drops to < 500"
"Stage 3 HIV is characterized by recurrent bacterial infections. CD4+ count drops to < 350"
"Stage 4 HIV is also known as AIDS, with a CD4+ count < 200"
"The criteria for AIDS is CD4 count less than 200, or confirmed HIV positivity with AIDS-defining opportunistic infections such as Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) or Candida esophagitis"
"Which AIDS-defining illness is caused directly by HIV? Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma"
"In early::early or late HIV infection, HIV gains entry into macrophages::what cells via binding to CD4 plus the coreceptor CCR5"
"In late::early or late HIV infection, HIV gains entry into Helper T-cells::what cells via binding to CD4 plus the coreceptor CXCR4"
"Individuals with homo-zygous CCR5 allele mutations are resistant to HIV infection"
"Individuals with hetero-zygous CCR5 allele mutations display a slower rate of progression of HIV infection"
"Transmission of HIV occurs via bodily fluids"
"Diagnosis of HIV *previously* was made initially with ELISA; positive results are confirmed with a(n) Western blot"
"ELISA and western blots (no longer used) for the diagnosis of HIV are falsely positive in infants born to HIV+ mothers since anti-gp120 antibodies cross the placenta"
"What tests are used to diagnose HIV in neonates? HIV RNA and HIV DNA nucleic acid amplification tests::2"
"Rev is a regulatory protein of HIV that regulates viral RNA transport of unspliced viral transcripts out of the nucleus"
"Tat is a regulatory protein of HIV that transcriptionally activates other viral genes"
"Which two regulatory proteins of HIV are required for viral replication? Rev and Tat"
"Nef is a cytoplasmic accessory protein of HIV that enhances viral replication through down-regulation of CD4 and MHC-I expression"
"Once HIV is inside a cell, viral reverse transcriptase converts viral RNA to double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) This double-stranded DNA is inserted into the host cell genome by integrase, another viral enzyme"
"The backbone of Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) are NRTIs such as Zidovudine"
"Which NRTI drug has been shown to reduce HIV transmission from pregnant mothers to their fetuses by 2/3? Zidovudine"
"NRTIs::NRTIs or NNRTIs insert themselves into the DNA of the reverse transcriptase, halting further elongation"
"NRTIs and NNRTIs both are reverse transcriptase inhibitors used in the treatment of HIV"
"Protease inhibitors inhibit the enzyme responsible for cleaving proteins during viral replication"
"Maraviroc is a(n) CCR5 inhibitor that inhibits HIV entrance into macrophages early in the disease course"
"Ivabradine is indicated for chronic stable angina in patients who cannot take β-blockers"
"Ivabradine is indicated for chronic Heart Failure with reduced ejection fraction"
"Ivabradine works by inhibiting the funny sodium (If) channels, prolonging phase 4 of the nodal action potential"
"What does Ivabradine do to: Chronotropy = Negative Effect Inotropy = No effect"
"What does Ivabradine do to MvO2? Decrease"
"Ivabradine can manifest visual side effects of luminous phenomena"
"Ivabradine is contraindicated in sick sinus syndrome::rhythm problem"
"Ivabradine can cause cardiac side effects of bradycardia and hypertension"
"p24 is the HIV capsid protein"
"HIV-associated lipodystrophy can be treated by the GHRH analog tesamorelin"
"Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) is a(n) icosahedral::icosahedral or helical linear::circular or linear enveloped::enveloped or naked dsDNA virus"
"Most DNA viruses replicate in the nucleus::cytoplasm or nucleus"
"Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) replicates in the nucleus::cytoplasm or nucleus"
"Cowdry bodies are located in the nucleus"
"Cowdry bodies are eosino-philic nuclear inclusions found in cells infected with organisms within the herpesviridae family"
"Vertical transmission is the passage of a pathogen from mother to baby during the period immediately before and after birth"
"Herpes virus can be transmitted via saliva, sex and vertically through the placenta"
"HSV-1 is usually confined to the upper half of the body"
"HSV-2 is usually confined to the lower half of the body"
"Gingivostomatitis of the mouth is the first sign of HSV-1"
"After primary infection, stress can reactivate HSV-1, which can result in herpes labialis (cold sores)"
"Keratoconjunctivitis of the cornea is a complication of HSV-1::what viral infection"
"\Serpiginous\\" or \\"Dendritic\\" corneal ulcers are seen in Fluorescein::stain slit lamp exam of Keratoconjunctivitis from HSV-1\""
"HSV-1::What virus is associated with temporal lobe encephalitis"
"What is the most common cause of sporadic encephalitis in the United States? HSV-1"
"HSV-1 induced temporal lobe encephalitis can present as seizures, aphasia and altered mental status"
"HSV-1 remains latent in the trigeminal ganglion"
"The Herpes rash is said to have a \dew drops on a rose petal\\" appearance\""
"Herpetic whitlow is a painful hand vesicle that occurs when the skin comes in contact with HSV-1 or HSV-2 (common in dentists)"
"Erythema multiforme may appear 1-2 weeks after Herpes Simplex Virus infection"
"Erythema multiforme are a result of HSV infection and appear as a \target lesion\\" with a pink-red ring around a pale center\""
"Painful inguinal lymphadenopathy is classically associated with HSV-2"
"HSV-2 remains latent in the sacral ganglion"
"HSV-2 can cause aseptic meningitis in adolescents and adults::what two demographics"
"A(n) Tzanck smear showing multinucleated giant cells is characteristic of Herpes Simplex Virus or Varicella Zoster Virus infections"
"What drugs are used to prevent breakouts of Herpes Simplex Virus? Acyclovir; Valacyclovir::2"
"PCR is the gold standard used in the diagnosis of Herpes Simplex Virus"
"Pelvic inflammatory disease can result in fallopian tubal scarring, which is a major risk factor for ectopic pregnancies and infertility"
"Esophagitis with ulcers that appear well-circumscribed and have a “volcano-like” appearance is common in HSV-1"
"Candida vulvovaginitis is common in patients with diabetes and patients who use antibiotics and oral contraceptives"
"List of pathogens that can cause endocarditis in IVDUs: Staphylococcus aureus Candida albicans"
"T cell deficient patients are more likely to get superficial Candida infections"
"Neutropenic::Specific patients are more likely to have disseminated candidiasis (hematogenous)"
"Mirabegron is a sympathomimetic that stimulates β3 receptors"
"At the bladder, stimulation of β3 receptors results in bladder relaxation"
"In the skeletal muscle, stimulation of β3 receptors results in increased thermogenesis"
"In fat, stimulation of β3 receptors results in increased lipolysis"
"Mirabegron is indicated for urinary urge incontinence"
"Midodrine is a(n) α1 agonist indicated for postural hypotension and autonomic insufficiency"
"Midodrine may exacerbate supine hypertension"
"Guanfacine is a(n) alpha-2 agonist that acts analogous to Clonidine"
"Guanfacine differs from Clonidine in that it is metabolized::metabolized or not metabolized? by cytochrome p450"
"Guanfacine is more::more/less effective than Clonidine in the treatment of ADHD"
"Deferoxamine, deferasirox, and deferiprone are iron chelators"
"Iron chelators are indicated for secondary hemochromatosis and iron poisoning"
"EDTA is a(n) chelator used for heavy metal poisoning"
"Fomepizole is used as an antidote for overdoses of methanol or ethylene glycol"
"Fomepizole works as an antidote for methanol/ethylene glycol poisoning by inhibiting Alcohol Dehydrogenase"
"Disulfiram is used to discourage alcohol consumption"
"Disulfiram works by inhibiting acetaldehyde dehydrogenase, resulting in a build up of acetaldehyde"
"Methemoglobinemia can be treated by methylene blue and vitamin C"
"Methylene Blue works for the treatment of methemoglobinemia by reducing Fe3+ to Fe2+"
"Oral ingestion of Ferrous Sulfate can cause esophagitis"
"Ferrous Sulfate is used to treat and prevent iron deficiency anemia"
"Ferrous Sulfate often causes a dose-dependent constipation"
"Sodium Bicarbonate is used to treat drug overdoses that are caused by drugs that are weak acids"
"Sodium Bicarbonate is used in the management of hyperkalemia to deal with the acidosis caused by rapid cell buffering"
"Pregabalin is a gabapentinoid that works by binding the α2δ subunit of N-type voltage gated calcium channels"
"As a result of inhibition of VDCCs located on the presynaptic membrane of neurons, pregabalin results in decreased neurotransmission"
"The main advantage pregabalin has over gabapentin is that it is more::more/less? bioavailable"
"Tesamorelin is a(n) GHRH analog used to treat HIV-associated lipodystrophy"
"Dornase Alfa is an aerolized medication used in the treatment of Cystic Fibrosis that is a recombinant DNase I"
"Dornase Alfa works by cleaving DNA present in the mucus of Cystic Fibrosis patients thus reducing the viscosity of lung secretions"
"In the treatment of Cystic Fibrosis, Azithromycin is used as a(n) anti-inflammatory agent"
"In the treatment of Cystic Fibrosis, Creon (pancrelipase) is a mix of pancreatic enzymes used to restore pancreatic function"
"In the treatment of Cystic Fibrosis, the combination drug lumacaftor/ivacaftor is indicated for patients who have two copies of the F508del mutation in the CFTR gene"
"In the treatment of Cystic Fibrosis, Lumacaftor works by facilitating proper folding of the CFTR protein"
"In the treatment of Cystic Fibrosis, Ivacaftor works by stimulating activity of the CFTR protein"
"Saline is a solution of sodium chloride"
"In the treatment of Cystic Fibrosis, aerosolized hypertonic saline is used to facilitate mucus clearance"
"Cidofovir (a CMV retinitis drug) is administered with probenecid and IV saline to reduce nephrotoxicity"
"In treating β-blocker toxicity, IV saline is given to restore blood pressure"
"In treating SIADH, hypertonic saline is given when treating a patient with severe symptoms, and isotonic saline is given for mild symptoms"
"Isotonic Saline can cause a(n) normal anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"For both :) hypovolemic and distributive::hypovolemic or distributive shock give IV isotonic saline or ringers lactate. For distributive shock only, pressors are indicated"
"Why are hypotonic saline solutions rarely used by themselves? Can cause RBC lysis"
"Poxvirus is a(n) linear::linear or circular enveloped::enveloped or naked dsDNA virus"
"Which virus makes its own envelope, unlike most viruses? Poxvirus"
"Poxvirus is the only DNA virus that completely replicates in the cytoplasm"
"Poxvirus has its own DNA-dependent RNA polymerase which allows it to replicate in the cytoplasm"
"Guarnieri bodies/B-type inclusions are Intra-cytoplasmic and diagnostic of Poxvirus"
"Poxvirus::which virus has a \dumbell-shaped\\" core\""
"Which virus is the largest DNA virus? Poxvirus"
"Smallpox is also known as variola and is part of the poxviridae family"
"Smallpox::Smallpox or Chickenpox viral lesions are all the same age"
"Chickenpox::Smallpox or Chickenpox viral lesions are different ages"
"Chickenpox::Smallpox or Chickenpox viral lesions are superficial"
"Smallpox::Smallpox or Chickenpox viral lesions are deep"
"Smallpox::Smallpox or Chickenpox viral lesions affect the face and palms"
"Chickenpox::Smallpox or Chickenpox viral lesions affect the trunk"
"The Cowpox virus is transmitted through contact with infected cow udders"
"Molluscum contagiosum is a(n) poxvirus that causes localized skin infections"
"Flesh-colored, dome-shaped, umbilicated skin lesions are diagnostic of Molluscum contagiosum"
"Umbilicated lesions on the trunk of children are diagnostic of Molluscum contagiosum"
"Diffuse molluscum contagiosum infection in adults suggests HIV infection and/or immuno-suppression"
"Single or multiple small (localized) Molluscum contagiosum infection in adults is most commonly due to sexually-transmitted infection::mode of transmission"
"Molluscum contagiosum can present with histologic eosino-philic cytoplasmic::location inclusion bodies within keratino-cytes known as \molluscum bodies\\"\""
"Transmission of smallpox occurs via inhalation of respiratory secretions"
"What type of vaccine is used for Smallpox? What is its name? Live, attenuated; Vaccinia"
"Poxviruses are the only DNA viruses without icosahedral symmetry, and instead have a \box\\" or \\"brick\\" shape\""
"Staphylococcus epidermidis is known to infect prosthetic devices ex: prosthetic joints, indwelling urinary catheters, prosthetic heart valves::3"
"Which bug commonly causes endocarditis of prosthetic heart valves? Staphylococcus epidermidis"
"Staphylococcus epidermidis forms a protective biofilm that allows it to colonize prosthetic devices"
"What is the treatment for assumed-methicillin resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis? Vancomycin"
"Staphylococcus epidermidis is a part of normal skin flora"
"Staphylococcus epidermidis is a common contaminant of blood cultures"
"Staphylococcus saprophyticus::which staph strain is a common cause of UTIs in sexually active females"
"Staphylococcus epidermidis is catalase positive"
"Staphylococcus saprophyticus is catalase positive"
"What enzyme converts Urea into Ammonia? Urease"
"Staphylococcus saprophyticus is coagulase negative"
"Staphylococcus saprophyticus infections spread via bodily fluids"
"Staphylococcus saprophyticus is gram positive"
"Staphylococcus epidermidis is gram positive"
"Patients with Staphylococcus saprophyticus infections typically present with UTIs and cystitis (symptoms include dysuria, polyuria, and abdominal pain/discomfort)"
"Staphylococcus saprophyticus is nitrate reductase negative"
"Staphylococcus saprophyticus is part of the normal flora of the rectum and vagina in up to 10% of females"
"Streptococcus pyogenes is also known as group A strep (GAS)"
"Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) contains a capsule made of hyaluronic acid"
"Group A strep (S. pyogenes) is β-hemolytic"
"Both Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) can cause impetigo"
"Streptococcus pyogenes may present with \honeycomb-like\\" crusts on the skin known as non-bullous impetigo\""
"Which bug is the most common cause of both non-bullous and bullous impetigo? Staph aureus"
"Group A Strep (Streptococcus pyogenes) causes pharyngitis, which may present with cervical lymphadenopathy"
"Group A strep (Streptococcus pyogenes) can cause erysipelas and cellulitis"
"Pyogenic infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes include pharyngitis (strep throat), non-bullous impetigo, erysipelas/cellulitis"
"Streptococcus pyogenes results in erysipelas, which is a superficial infection of the skin"
"Streptococcus pyogenes results in cellulitis, which is a deep infection of the skin"
"Streptococcus pyogenes contains the enzyme hyaluronidase, which breaks down connective tissue, allowing for the spread of cellulitis"
"Systemic release of Streptococcus pyogenes exotoxins A, B, and C results in scarlet fever"
"Scarlet fever can present with a red, swollen, \strawberry\\" tongue"
"SpeA and C of Streptococcus pyogenes cause toxic shock like syndrome"
"SpeB of Streptococcus pyogenes is associated with necrotizing fasciitis"
"M protein is an anti-phagocytic virulence factor contained on Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) cell walls"
"M protein of Streptococcus pyogenes is similar in structure to myosin"
"M protein of Streptococcus pyogenes can result in antigenic response to myosin in cardiac muscle"
"Rheumatic fever is caused by cross-reactivity between Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS)::bug antigens (M protein) and self-antigens"
"Rheumatic fever::GAS complication most commonly results in damage and stenosis of the mitral valve"
"Rheumatic fever is generally preceded by group A strep pharyngitis and NOT GAS skin infections (impetigo)"
"Rheumatic fever is a type II hypersensitivity reaction"
"The \JONES\\" criteria is used for Rheumatic Fever: J: Joints - migratory polyarthritis O: ♥ - carditis (endocarditis"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis is a Type III hypersensitivity reaction"
"Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) can ultimately result in Rheumatic Fever and Post-Streptococcal Glomerulonephritis (PSGN)"
"Signs of Post-Streptococcal Glomerulonephritis include dark, \cola\\"-colored urine and facial edema\""
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis occurs 2 wks::time post GAS infection"
"Circulating immune complex deposition causes glomerular damage and subsequent nephritic syndrome in Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN) is generally preceded by either group A strep pharyngitis AND/OR GAS skin infections (impetigo)"
"Early diagnosis and treatment of strep throat cannot::can/cannot prevent post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis"
"Early diagnosis and treatment of strep throat can::can/cannot prevent rheumatic fever"
"The drug of choice for treatment of Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) is penicillin"
"Which virulence factors of Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) allows for lysis of RBC and WBCs? Streptolysin O and Streptolysin S::2"
"Streptokinase is a virulence factor released from Group A Strep that converts plasminogen to plasmin (a fibrinolytic)"
"DNase-B is a virulence factor released by Group A Strep that de-polymerizes DNA"
"S. pyogenes (GAS) is bacitracin sensitive::sensitive or resistant"
"Elevated titers of Anti-streptolysin O (ASO) or anti-DNase B antibodies are indicative of recent Group A strep (S. pyogenes) infection"
"Anti-M protein antibodies are the cause of Rheumatic Fever"
"Group B Strep is known as Streptococcus agalactiae"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) is hippurate positive::positive or negative"
"Is Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) encapsulated? Yes (polysaccharide capsule)"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) and Listeria monocytogenes are CAMP test positive"
"The CAMP test will show a increasing zone of hemolysis when Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) or Listeria monocytogenes is plated with Staphylococcus aureus"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) is β-hemolytic"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) is bacitracin resistant"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) causes neonatal meningitis, sepsis, and pneumonia"
"Group B strep (Streptococcus agalactiae) is part of the natural flora of the GI tract and vagina"
"Which strain of Streptococcus can be passed to the baby via vaginal delivery? GBS (Streptococcus agalactiae)"
"Culture of the mother's vagina at 35 wks::time of pregnancy is done to ensure Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) has not colonized"
"Pregnant mothers with vaginal colonization of Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) are given intra-partum penicillin prophylaxis"
"What is the treatment for Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS)? Penicillin G::specific"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) is gram-positive"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) is catalase negative"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is alpha-hemolytic"
"Streptococcus viridans is alpha-hemolytic"
"In alpha-hemolysis, there is a green hue due to the oxidation of hemoglobin"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae virulence factors are an anti-phagocytic polysaccharide capsule and IgA protease"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is optochin-sensitive"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is a(n) lancet-shaped diplo-cocci"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is bile-soluble"
"What is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia in adults? Streptococcus pneumoniae"
"Lobar pneumonia and \rust\\"-colored sputum are indicative of Streptococcus pneumoniae\""
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of C-MOPS: - Conjunctivitis (redness and discharge) - Meningitis (fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness) - Otitis media (ear pain) - Pneumonia (fever, cough, chills) - Sinusitis (nasal discharge, sinus tenderness)"
"Due to Streptococcus pneumoniae having a polysaccharide capsule virulence factor, patients who have sickle cell disease or a-splenic patients are particularly susceptible"
"Treatment of Streptococcus pneumoniae includes azithromycin (macrolides) and ceftriaxone (3rd gen. cephalosporin)"
"The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) is given to children under 5 years and adults over 65 to prevent Streptococcus pneumoniae infection"
"Is Streptococcus viridans encapsulated? No"
"Streptococcus viridans is optochin-resistant"
"Streptococcus viridans is bile-insoluble"
"Lab results of S. pneumoniae meningitis include low::high or low CSF glucose"
"Lab results of S. pneumoniae meningitis include high::high or low polymorphonuclear cells in CSF"
"Lab results of S. pneumoniae meningitis include high::high or low protein in CSF"
"Which spp. of Streptococcus viridans causes dental caries? Streptococcus mutans"
"Which spp. of Streptococcus viridans causes subacute endocarditis? Streptococcus sanguinis"
"Which spp. of Streptococcus viridans causes endocarditis? (non-subacute) Streptococcus mitis"
"Which heart valve is most commonly affected by subacute and acute endocarditis caused by Streptococcus sanguinis and mitis? Mitral valve"
"Streptococcus sanguinis (viridans family)::specific makes dextrans which bind to fibrin-platelet aggregates on damaged heart valves"
"Enterococci spp. include Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium"
"Enterococcus faecalis is more::more/less common and less::more or less likely to be resistant to vancomycin than Enterococcus faecium"
"Enterococcus faecium is less::more/less common and more::more or less likely to be resistant to vancomycin than Enterococcus faecalis"
"Enteroccoci species grows on 6.5% NaCl and 40% bile culture media"
"Enterococcus spp. are bile-insoluble (aka resistant)::soluble or insoluble"
"Enterococcus spp. can result in UTIs, subacute endocarditis, and biliary tree infections"
"Which antibiotics are used to treat VRE? (vancomycin resistant enterococcus - commonly Enterococcus faecium) IV Linezolid; Tigecycline"
"Enterococci spp. are one of the leading causes of nosocomial (hospital) infections in the U.S. due to high antibiotic resistance"
"Enterococci spp. are facultative anaerobes"
"Enterococci spp. are gram-positive"
"Enterococci spp. normally inhabit the lower GI and GU tracts"
"If Streptococcus bovis is present in the blood (bacteremia) what pathology should be suspected? Colon cancer"
"Streptococcus bovis biotype 1 is known as Streptococcus gallolyticus"
"Streptococcus gallolyticus can cause bacteremia and subacute endocarditis; is associated with colon cancer"
"Both Mycobacteria tuberculosis and leprae stain acid-fast, taking up the carbol fuchsin stain"
"Both Mycobacteria tuberculosis and leprae stain acid-fast due to the high concentration of mycolic acids in their cell walls"
"Mycobacteria tuberculosis grows slow::fast or slow, requiring 2-6 wks to grow"
"Mycobacteria tuberculosis grows on the Löwenstein Jensen agar"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Mycobacteria tuberculosis? Obligate aerobe"
"M. tuberculosis is transmitted via inhalation of droplet nuclei (airborne particles)"
"Mycobacteria tuberculosis primarily resides and proliferates in macrophages::cell type"
"Cord factor allows for clumping of Mycobacteria tuberculosis in a \serpentine-like\\" formation\""
"Cord factor of Mycobacteria tuberculosis stimulates granuloma formation via induction of TNF-a"
"Cord factor of Mycobacteria tuberculosis activates macrophages via induction of TNF-a, which then form granulomas"
"Cord factor of Mycobacteria tuberculosis is only present in virulent strains of bacteria"
"Sulfatides (surface glycolipids) of Mycobacterium tuberculosis inhibit phagolysosome fusion"
"Paths of Progression after Primary Mycobacteria tuberculosis infection: healed latent infection (most common)"
"Paths of Progression after Primary Mycobacteria tuberculosis infection: disseminated/systemic infection aka miliary tuberculosis"
"Paths of Progression after Primary Mycobacteria tuberculosis infection: secondary infection, which occurs by reactivated infection due to immunosuppression (HIV, old age, cancer, etc)"
"Primary infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis commonly affects the middle and lower lobes of the lungs"
"Primary Mycobacteria tuberculosis infection is diagnosed via presence of the Ghon complex"
"The Ghon complex of Primary tuberculosis includes hilar lymphadenopathy with Ghon foci in the middle and lower lobes of the lungs"
"A(n) Ghon focus is a(n) caseating granuloma::specific located near the pleura in the middle or lower lobes of the lung (tuberculosis infection)"
"The granulomas of a Ghon focus are caseating granulomas, meaning they have a central area of necrotic macrophages::specific cell"
"Most cases of primary tuberculosis occur in children::demographic and the immunocompromised"
"Most cases of primary tuberculosis resolve, healing via fibrosis and calcification, transitioning to latent disease"
"Latent tuberculosis infections result in a positive purified protein derivative (PPD+) skin test"
"Exposure to Mycobacterium tuberculosis::bug name will always* result in a positive PPD test"
"The BCG vaccine can result in a false positive PPD test"
"What is the prognosis for miliary tuberculosis? Poor (100% fatality if not treated)"
"Miliary tuberculosis develops when the infection is disseminated into the blood (bacteremia)"
"Miliary tuberculosis can result in granuloma formation in the spleen, liver, adrenal gland and meninges (causing meningitis)"
"Inhibition of TNF-a::specific molecule (e.g. immunosuppression, drugs) results in lack of granuloma formation and resultant reactivation of tuberculosis"
"Reactivated tuberculosis affects the upper lobes of the lung"
"Cough, night sweats, and hemoptysis are symptoms of reactivated Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection"
"CNS involvement of disseminated Mycobacteria tuberculosis can result in meningitis as well as cavitary lesions known as tuberculomas"
"Active Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection is treated with RIPE therapy"
"Active Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection is treated with RIPE therapy: - Rifampin - Isoniazid - Pyrazinamide - Ethambutol (or streptomycin)"
"Isoniazid is administered with pyridoxine (Vitamin B6) in patients at risk for peripheral neuropathy as well as those who are pregnant, breastfeeding or have epilepsy"
"A(n) Ranke complex is a Ghon complex that has undergone progressive fibrosis and subsequent calcification"
"Diagnosis of active primary tuberculosis is made by chest x-ray (CXR) demonstrating a(n) Ghon complex and pleural effusion"
"What test for tuberculosis does not cross-react with BCG vaccine? Quantiferon Gold assay"
"The Quantiferon Gold assay measures IFN-gamma levels released from Th1-cells exposed to Mycobacterium tuberculosis"
"Kidney infection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis results in RBCs and WBCs in urine WITHOUT bacteria, known as sterile pyuria"
"The two phases of tuberculosis treatment include 4 drugs for 2 months followed by 2 (isoniazid and rifampin) drugs for 4 months"
"Isoniazid (INH) can be used alone as treatment for latent tuberculosis infections"
"Isoniazid (INH) works by inhibiting the synthesis of mycolic acid production on Mycobacteria tuberculosis"
"Isoniazid (INH) is a prodrug that is activated by KatG (a catalase-peroxidase), which is produced by Mycobacteria tuberculosis"
"Mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis that down-regulate the expression of KatG (a catalase-peroxidase) lead to Isoniazid::drug resistance"
"Peripheral neuropathy, ataxia, and paresthesias are common side-effects of Isoniazid therapy for Mycobacterium tuberculosis"
"Isoniazid is metabolized by the hepatic enzyme N-acetyltransferase"
"Slow-acetylators have an increased risk of side effects from Isoniazid (INH)"
"Isoniazid promotes the excretion of pyridoxine (Vitamin B6), therefore resulting in deficiency and peripheral neuropathy"
"Isoniazid may also cause altered mental status and seizures (CNS toxicity)"
"Hepato-toxicity is associated with Isoniazid use"
"Isoniazid hepatotoxicity results in an asymptomatic rise in aminotransferases (AST, ALT) on LFTs"
"Drug-induced lupus is an immunologic toxicity of Isoniazid use"
"Isoniazid use can result in metabolic acidosis::acidosis or alkalosis"
"The metabolic acidosis associated with Isoniazid use has a(n) elevated::normal or elevated anion gap"
"Isoniazid inhibits::induces or inhibits cytochrome p450"
"Rifampin induces::induces or inhibits cytochrome p450"
"Rifampin::Antibacterial works by binding to bacterial DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, inhibiting RNA synthesis"
"Mutations in which bacterial enzyme can result in resistance to Rifampin? DNA-dependent RNA polymerase"
"Rifampin is used as prophylactic mono-therapy in those exposed to H. influenzae and Neisseria meningitidis::what two bugs?"
"Rifampin use is associated with hepato-toxicity"
"Which antibacterial drug may produce a red-orange discoloration of body fluids? Rifampin"
"Ethambutol blocks the enzyme arabinosyl transferase, inhibiting carbohydrate polymerization at the bacterial cell wall"
"Which of the RIPE drugs is bacteriostatic? Ethambutol"
"The most serious adverse effect of ethambutol::TB drug use is optic neuritis, characterized by loss of visual acuity and red-green colorblindness"
"Pyrazinamide is an antibiotic only used to treat Mycobacterium tuberculosis"
"Which RIPE drug can cause uric acid crystal formation and ultimately gout? Pyrazinamide"
"Pyrazinamide is associated with hyper-uricemia"
"Pyrazinamide is hepato-toxic, even leading to liver necrosis"
"Pyrazinamide is a pro-drug that is converted into the active form, pyrazinoic acid, by the enzyme pyrazinamidase"
"Pyrazinamide readily crosses the blood-brain barrier, and is used to treat tuberculous meningitis"
"The B6 depletion with Isoniazid use can lead to decreased protoporphyrin synthesis, leading to a(n) sideroblastic anemia"
"Rifampin can be remembered by the 4 R's DNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitor Ramps up microsomal CYP450 Red/orange body fluids Rapid Resistance if used alone"
"Mycobacterium leprae thrives in cool temperatures, explaining its predilection for extremities of the body"
"Mycobacteria leprae grows extensively in armadillos::animal, which have a cooler core body temperature"
"Leprosy is caused by Mycobacteria leprae and is also known as Hansen's disease"
"Mycobacteria leprae can cause tuberculoid and lepromatous leprosy"
"Tuberculoid leprosy is associated with a strong Th1-cell response, allowing for cell-mediated immunity"
"Tuberculoid leprosy is able to be contained within macrophages"
"Well-demarcated, hairless, hypoesthetic, hypopigmented skin plaques are common in Tuberculoid leprosy"
"A positive Lepromin skin test demonstrates a good cell-mediated response in Tuberculoid leprosy"
"Lepromatous leprosy is associated with a strong Th2-cell response, allowing for humoral immunity"
"Lepromatous leprosy is unable to be contained within macrophages, allowing for diffuse inflammatory damage"
"Which form of Leprosy (Mycobacteria leprae) is communicable (human to human)? Lepromatous leprosy"
"Lepromatous leprosy presents with a symmetrical glove and stocking neuropathy"
"Poorly-demarcated raised lesions on extensor surfaces of the extremities is characteristic of Lepromatous leprosy"
"\Leonine facies\\" are characteristic of Lepromatous leprosy (Mycobacteria leprae)\""
"Loss of eyebrows is characteristic of Lepromatous leprosy"
"A saddle-nose (thick) with thick cheeks is characteristic of Lepromatous leprosy"
"Infertility due to testicular involvement is characteristic of Lepromatous leprosy"
"Treatment of the Tuberculoid form of Leprosy includes Rifampin and Dapsone for 6 months::time"
"Treatment of the Lepromatous form of Leprosy includes Rifampin, Dapsone and Clofazimine for 24 months to 5 years::time"
"Mycobacterium leprae is an obligate intracellular bacteria"
"Mycobacterium avium complex is a non-TB disease that causes disseminated infection in the late stages of AIDS"
"Mycobacterium avium complex includes Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium intracellulare"
"Mycobacterium avium complex is treated with azithromycin/clarithromycin (a macrolide) combined with ethambutol"
"Azithromycin prophylaxis for Mycobacterium avium complex should be started with CD4+ counts < 50"
"Rifabutin may be added as a third agent in the treatment of Mycobacterium avium complex"
"Rifabutin induces::induces or inhibits cytochrome p450"
"Because Rifabutin induces CYP450 less than other drugs in its class (i.e. Rifampin), it is used in the treatment of tuberculosis in HIV patients"
"Side-effects of Dapsone include agranulocytosis and hemolytic anemia in G6PD deficiency"
"What drug used to treat Mycobacteria leprae may present with Heinz bodies and bite cells (degmacytes)? Dapsone"
"Mycobacteria marinum causes a hand-infection in aquarium handlers"
"Mycobacteria scrofulaceum causes cervical lymphadenitis in children"
"What drug can be used instead of Ethambutol to treat Mycobacteria tuberculosis infection? Streptomycin"
"Penicillins are effective against the thick peptidoyglycan cell walls of gram positive bacteria (e.g. Staphylococcus spp. and Streptococcus spp.)"
"What proteins cross-link peptidoglycan on bacterial cell walls? Penicillin binding protein transpeptidases (PBPs)"
"β-lactams (e.g. penicillin, cephalosporins, etc.) work by halting peptidoglycan synthesis via inhibition of penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) transpeptidase activity"
"Penicillin G is administered IV"
"Benzathine salts of penicillin G can be given via intramuscular injection"
"Penicillin V::specific or Aminopenicillins (amoxicillin, ampicillin)::2 (penicillins) treat Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) pharyngitis (strep throat)"
"Penicillin V or G are treatments for Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) rheumatic fever::heart"
"Penicillin G treats left-sided endocarditis caused by Strep viridans and Strep bovis"
"The treatment for a pregnant mother's vagina colonized by Strep agalactiae (GBS) is intra-partum penicillin G prophylaxis"
"What is the treatment for Actinomyces israelii? Penicillin"
"What is the treatment for Clostridium perfringens? Penicillin, Clindamycin::2"
"What is the treatment for Pasteurella multocida? Penicillin"
"Which bug commonly infects dog bite wounds? Pasteurella multocida"
"What is the treatment of primary, secondary and latent syphilis (Treponema pallidum)? Benzathine penicillin G (intramuscular)::very specific"
"What gram negative bug that causes meningitis is treated with penicillin G or ceftriaxone? Neisseria meningitidis"
"Resistance of penicillins comes from production of β-lactamases that cleave the β-lactam ring, or changes to penicillin binding proteins (confers methicillin resistance in MRSA)"
"β-lactamases are expressed by plasmid genes"
"Penicillins can result in type I hypersensitivity reactions, mediated by IgE causing anaphylaxis"
"Penicillins can result in autoimmune hemolytic anemia, which results in a positive direct Coombs test due to IgG against penicillin binding to RBCs"
"Which penicillin toxicity involves the kidney? Interstitial nephritis"
"Penicillins inhibit the ability of bacteria to generate a cell wall, which causes death by osmolysis In addition, penicillins allow accumulation of peptidoglycan precursors, which activates bacterial autolysis"
"Penicillin binds to PBP transpeptidases by mimicking the D-ala-D-ala sequence of peptidoglycan"
"β-lactamase enzymes are found in the periplasm of gram negative bacteria"
"Anti-staph penicillins include oxacillin, nafcillin, and dicloxacillin"
"Aminopenicillins include amoxicillin and ampicillin"
"IV::ROA ampicillin::aminopenicillin can be used to treat anaerobic infections (e.g. aspiration pneumonia)"
"Enterococcus spp. can become resistant to ampicillin due to β-lactamase production"
"Are aminopenicillins (amoxicillin, ampicillin) sensitive to β-lactamases? Yes!"
"Which aminopenicillin can be used in asplenic or sickle cell patients to prophylactically treat encapsulated (e.g. Strep pneumoniae or H. influenzae) infection? Amoxicillin"
"Which aminopenicillin can be used in dental procedures to prophylactically treat endocarditis in high-risk patients? Amoxicillin"
"Amoxicillin/clavulanate therapy is one of the most common causes of drug-induced liver injury"
"Aminopenicillins (amoxicillin) causing a maculopapular rash in EBV infection is a type IV hypersensitivity reaction"
"A patient that was given a penicillin drug that has in-creased BUN/creatinine, eosino-phils in urine and sterile pyuria most likely has interstitial nephritis"
"Interstitial nephritis that develops as a result of Penicillin administration is a type IV hypersensitivity reaction"
"Direct Coombs Positive Hemolytic Anemia that develops as a result of Penicillin administration is a type II hypersensitivity reaction"
"What 2 classes of penicillins can penetrate the porins of gram negative bacteria? Aminopenicillins (ampicillin, amoxicillin); Antipseudomonal penicillins (ticarcillin, piperacillin)"
"What type of penicillins have a positively charged R-group? Aminopenicillins (amoxicillin, ampicillin)"
"Clavulanic acid (clavulanate) is a suicide β-lactamase inhibitor that is combined with the aminopenicillin amoxicillin (Augmentin) or the antipseudomonal ticarcillin"
"Sulbactam is an irreversible β-lactamase inhibitor that is combined with ampicillin (an aminopenicillin) (Unasyn)"
"Tazobactam is an irreversible β-lactamase inhibitor that is combined with piperacillin (antipseudomonal penicillin) (Zosyn)"
"Cephalosporins inhibit bacterial penicillin binding protein transpeptidases (PBPs).::enzyme"
"Cephalosporins (and other β-lactam antibiotics) mimic the D-ala-D-ala sequence of peptidoglycans, binding irreversibly::reversibly/irreversibly to penicillin binding protein transpeptidases"
"1st generation cephalosporins include cephalexin and cefazolin"
"1st generation cephalosporins have activity mostly against gram-positive organisms"
"1st generation cephalosporins can be used to treat GAS pharyngitis and cellulitis"
"2nd generation cephalosporins include cefuroxime, cefotetan, cefoxitin and cefaclor"
"2nd generation cephalosporins have the same coverage as 1st generation cephalosporins with extended gram-negative coverage"
"3rd generation cephalosporins include ceftriaxone, cefotaxime, ceftazidime"
"3rd generation cephalosporins are::are/are not able to penetrate the CNS"
"3rd generation cephalosporins can be used to treat community and hospital acquired pneumonia"
"Which 3rd generation cephalosporin can treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection? Ceftazidime"
"What generation of cephalosporins has Pseudomonas coverage (besides 3rd gen. ceftazidime)? 4th gen. (cefepime)"
"Do 5th generation cephalosporins have Pseudomonas coverage? No!"
"What generation of cephalosporins have coverage against vancomycin-intermediate staph aureus (VISA)? 5th gen. (ceftaroline)"
"Cephalosporins have similar hypersensitivities to those seen in what drugs? Penicillins"
"What β-lactam antibiotics result in increased nephrotoxicity when combined with aminoglycosides? Cephalosporins"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is part of the herpesviridae family"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is icosahedral::helical or icosahedral"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is enveloped::naked or enveloped"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is linear::circular or linear"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is a(n) dsDNA virus"
"Epstein-Barr Virus causes monospot positive infectious mononucleosis"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is primarily transmitted through saliva or respiratory secretions"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is associated with fever, post-erior cervical lymphadenopathy, pharyngitis, and hepatosplenomegaly"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is associated with Downey type II atypical CD8+ cytotoxic T::very specific cells on blood smear"
"Downey type II T-cells are atypical CD8+ cytotoxic T-cells seen on a blood smear of Epstein-Barr Virus"
"Atypical (Downey type II) T cells are unusually large T cells with baso-philic, vacuolated cytoplasm and lobulated nucleus"
"Epstein-Barr Virus first infects the oropharynx epithelium"
"T-cell proliferation in Epstein-Barr Virus results in (hepato)splenomegaly"
"Epstein-Barr Virus remains latent in B-cells"
"Epstein-Barr virus binds to CD21 (C3d receptor; CR2) on B-cells, causing B-cell proliferation and heterophile antibody production"
"The B-cell CD21 is the receptor for complement protein C3d"
"Because of splenomegaly, patients with mononucleosis (EBV) are advised to avoid contact sports (e.g. football) for danger of splenic rupture"
"Epstein-Barr Virus can result in pharyngitis with tonsillar exudates"
"Which cause of pharyngitis is more commonly seen in children and adolescents? Strep pyogenes (GAS)"
"Which cause of pharyngitis is more commonly seen in late teens and adults? EBV (infectious mononucleosis)"
"If patients with Epstein-Barr Virus are given aminopenicillins (amoxicillin, ampicillin), a maculopapular rash will develop days to weeks after"
"EBV causes heterophile-positive mononucleosis"
"CMV causes heterophile-negative mononucleosis"
"What virus can predispose individuals to oral hairy leukoplakia in the setting of immunosuppression (e.g. HIV)? EBV"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is strongly associated with the mixed cellularity and lymphocyte depleted subtypes of Hodgkin’s lymphoma"
"Which virus is strongly associated with the mixed cellularity and lymphocyte depleted subtype of Hodgkin’s lymphoma? Epstein-Barr Virus"
"Hodgkin's lymphoma consists of malignant \Reed-Sternberg\\" cells surrounded by inflammatory cells\""
"Reed-Sternberg cells of Hodgkin's lymphoma are of B-cell origin"
"Reed-Sternberg cells of Hodgkin's lymphoma are CD15+ and CD30+"
"Reed-Sternberg cells of Hodgkin's lymphoma are bi-nucleate with prominent nucleoi (\owl eyes\\")\""
"Hodgkin's lymphoma mixed cellularity type has the most Reed-Sternberg cells"
"Hodgkin's lymphoma caused by EBV presents as a(n) mediastinal mass or nontender::tender or nontender lymphadenopathy"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is associated with the endemic (African) form of Burkitt’s lymphoma"
"What virus is associated with the endemic (African) form of Burkitt’s lymphoma? Epstein-Barr Virus"
"What complication of Epstein-Barr Virus can present with a large jaw lesion and swelling? Endemic (African) Burkitt lymphoma"
"Which form of Burkitt's lymphoma presents as a mass on the jaw or face? Endemic (African)"
"Which form of Burkitt's lymphoma presents as an abdominal mass? Non-endemic (sporadic form)"
"Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is a complication of Epstein-Barr Virus in patients of Asian descent"
"What demographic is associated with Nasopharyngeal carcinoma that arises from EBV? Asians"
"What virus causes agglutination of sheep or horse RBCs? Epstein-Barr Virus"
"The monospot test for EBV looks for heterophile anti-sheep/horse RBC antibodies"
"Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is part of the herpesviridae family"
"Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is icosahedral::helical or icosahedral"
"Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is enveloped::naked or enveloped"
"Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is linear::circular or linear"
"Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a(n) dsDNA virus"
"Which Herpesvirus remains latent in B & T cells (lymphocytes) and macrophages? CMV"
"Reactivation of CMV from mononuclear cells occurs via immunosuppression (organ transplant, AIDS patients)"
"Similar to Rubella, CMV can present with a \blueberry muffin\\" rash\""
"Sensorineural deafness is a complication of which congenital (ToRCHeS) infections? CMV Rubella Syphilis Toxoplasmosis::4"
"CMV can result in ventriculo-megaly on head CT scans"
"CMV can present with periventricular calcifications in the brain"
"What viral infection can present with ventriculomegaly, microcephaly and periventricular calcifications in the brain? CMV"
"Changes in brain structure associated with CMV can result in mental retardation and seizures"
"What percentage of neonates congenitally infected with CMV are asymptomatic? 80-90%"
"Which trimester is associated with the highest risk of congenital CMV? 1st trimester*"
"CMV can result in hydrops fetalis, which commonly leads to spontaneous abortion"
"What is the most common cause of viral-associated intellectual disability (in the US)? CMV"
"Reactivation of CMV occurs in the immunosuppressed, such as organ transplant and AIDS patients"
"Organ transplant patients are at an increased risk of CMV pneumonia"
"How is CMV detected in organ transplant patients? Buffy coat culture (WBCs)"
"AIDS patients are at risk for CMV infections when their CD4 count is < 50"
"Cotton wool spots and a \pizza pie\\" description on funduscopy are characteristic of what viral infection complication? CMV retinitis\""
"Esophagitis with linear ulcerations is characteristic of what viral infection? CMV"
"Esophagitis with linear ulcerations is characteristic of CMV"
"Esophagitis with \punched-out\\" ulcerations is characteristic of HSV-1\""
"CMV can present with inclusion bodies said to look like \owl's eyes\\"\""
"Treatment for CMV includes Ganciclovir, Valganciclovir or Foscarnet/cidofovir"
"Foscarnet or cidofovir are used to treat ganciclovir-resistant CMV infections"
"Resistance in CMV to ganciclovir occurs with mutations in the UL97 gene"
"Which Herpesvirus causes Mononucleosis with a positive Monospot test? EBV"
"Which Herpesvirus infection can result in Cauda equina syndrome in HIV/AIDS patients? CMV"
"CMV infects white blood cells and blocks expression of MHC I, inhibiting cytotoxic T-cell killing"
"Which Herpesvirus inhibits expression of MHC I in infected cells? CMV"
"Which Herpesvirus can present with ventriculomegaly? CMV"
"Organ transplant patients are at an increased risk of pneumonia from which herpesvirus? CMV"
"What Herpesvirus can result in colitis with ulcerated walls? CMV"
"Which Herpesvirus can result in esophagitis with linear ulcerations? CMV"
"Drugs that elongate QT interval must be avoided in Congenital Long QT Syndrome - ABCDEF+N A - anti-arrhythmics (Class 1A and 3); Arsenic::heavy metal? B - anti-biotics (macrolides, fluoroquinolones) C - anti-\c\\"ychotics (haloperidol); chlorpromazine D - anti-depressants (TCAs); diuretics (thiazides) E - anti-emetics F - anti-fungals (fluconazole) N - -n{{c10::avir (protease inhibitors)::drug for HIV\""
"Uric acid is normally freely excreted by the kidney"
"In the liver::organ, nucleic acids are broken down into nucleotide monomers"
"Metabolism of purines ultimately produces uric acid"
"Purines are first converted to hypoxanthine"
"Hypoxanthine is converted to xanthine via xanthine oxidase"
"Xanthine is converted to uric acid by xanthine oxidase"
"NSAIDs (e.g. indomethacin) are first line agents for treatment of acute gout, as they block prostaglandin synthesis at COX"
"Glucocorticoids (e.g. prednisone) are third-line agents for the treatment of acute gout, as they inhibit the immune response to MSU deposition in the joint"
"Colchicine is a second-line agent for treatment of acute gout via binding of intracellular β-tubulin"
"Colchicine binds tubulin, preventing polymerization of microtubules"
"Which gout drug binds tubulin and inhibits intracellular microtubule polymerization? Colchicine"
"Which gout drug disrupts leukocyte migration, phagocytosis and degranulation? Colchicine"
"Colchicine disrupts the cytoskeleton of neutrophils, which normally cause inflammation due to monosodium urate deposition in gout"
"Colchicine can cause diarrhea::GI symptom"
"Gout treatment (NSAIDs, glucocorticoids, colchicine) can also be used to treat pseudogout"
"Chronic gout due to overproduction is treated with allopurinol or febuxostat, which inhibit xanthine oxidase"
"Allopurinol is a treatment for chronic gout, as it inhibits xanthine oxidase"
"Febuxostat is a treatment for chronic gout, as it inhibits xanthine oxidase"
"What are the two first-line drugs for the treatment of chronic gout due to overproduction? Allopurinol; Febuxostat"
"What drug can manage hyperuricemia in tumor lysis syndrome? Allopurinol"
"Cytotoxic chemotherapy can result in hyper-uricemia; known as tumor lysis syndrome"
"Tumor lysis syndrome is most common with treatment of lymphoma and acute lymphoblastic leukemia"
"Allopurinol is used to prevent uric acid deposition in the renal tubules during tumor lysis syndrome"
"Picking of the skin or biting of the lips due to hyperuricemia is seen in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome"
"What drug is used in the management of hyperuricemia in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome? Allopurinol"
"Allopurinol inhibits the breakdown of purine analogs (e.g. 6-mercaptopurine and azathioprine)"
"Which gout drug inhibits purine analog breakdown, thus increasing the risk for drug toxicity? Allopurinol (and febuxostat)"
"Which gout drug can result in Stevens-Johnson syndrome? Allopurinol"
"Allopurinol hypersensitivity can result in Stevens-Johnson syndrome, which is characterized by sloughing of the skin"
"Allopurinol can result in eosino-philia"
"Which gout drug can result in rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms? Allopurinol"
"Is Gout more commonly caused by uric acid overproduction or underexcretion? Underexcretion"
"Uricosurics (e.g. probenecid) treat chronic gout due to underexcretion"
"Which uricosuric drug is used to treat chronic gout due to underexcretion? Probenecid"
"What drug decreases renal tubular reabsorption of uric acid? Probenecid"
"Probenecid decreases proximal renal tubular reabsorption of uric acid"
"Which gout drug can result in uric acid kidney stones? Probenecid"
"Probenecid increases uric acid excretion, thus increasing the risk of uric acid kidney stones"
"Which gout drug prevents renal excretion of drugs (e.g. penicillin; cidofovir)? Probenecid"
"What effect does probenecid have on serum levels of penicillin? Increased"
"What drug used for chronic gout is a sulfa drug? Probenecid"
"Which NSAID at high doses prevents uric acid reabsorption? Aspirin"
"Aspirin at high doses decreases uric acid reabsorption in the renal tubules"
"Aspirin at low doses inhibits uric acid secretion in the renal tubules"
"Which NSAID at low doses inhibits uric acid excretion? Aspirin"
"What drug increases the water solubility of uric acid? Pegloticase"
"Pegloticase converts uric acid into water soluble allantoin"
"Pegloticase can result in what hematologic pathology? Hemolytic anemia in G6PD deficiency"
"Which chronic gout drug can result in degmacytes (bite cells) on peripheral blood smear? Pegloticase"
"Which chronic gout drug can cause anaphylaxis? Pegloticase"
"Which chronic gout drug must be administered IV? Pegloticase"
"Loop and Thiazide diuretics decrease uric acid excretion"
"Probenecid inhibits the kidney’s organic anion transporters (OAT) and the urate transporters (URAT) in the proximal tubule"
"Patients who use probenecid need to drink 2L of fluid daily"
"Which etiology of meningitis is Pyrazinamide prescribed to treat? M. tuberculosis"
"What are the two first-line drugs for the treatment of chronic gout due to underexcretion? Probenecid; Pegloticase"
"Xeroderma Pigmentosum is inherited in a(n) autosomal recessive fashion"
"Monobactams bind to penicillin binding protein transpeptidases"
"Carbapenems bind to penicillin binding protein transpeptidases"
"The MoA of Carbapenems and Monobactams is bacterio-cidal"
"What class of drugs does aztreonam belong to? Monobactams"
"What type of bacteria do monobactams have activity towards? Aerobic, gram (-) rods"
"Aztreonam works by binding to penicillin binding protein 3::#"
"What is one specific gram negative rod monobactams treat? Pseudomonas"
"Monobactams can::can/cannot penetrate the CNS"
"Is there immunologic cross-reactivity between penicillin and monobactams? No"
"Monobactams treat meningitis and pneumonia caused by aerobic gram negative rods only"
"Aztreonam can be used in patients with penicillin allergies"
"What is the susceptibility of monobactams (aztreonam) to β-lactamases? Resistant"
"Monobactams (aztreonam) are commonly used in patients that cannot tolerate aminoglycosides due to renal insufficiency"
"What is one specific gram negative rod carbapenems treat? Pseudomonas"
"What type of bacteria do carbapenems have activity towards? Broad spectrum"
"Carbapenems::Monobactams or Carbapenems are used to treat ana-erobic infections"
"Carbapenems can::can/cannot penetrate the CNS"
"Carbapenems can treat aspiration and hospital-acquired pneumonia"
"What class of β-lactam antibiotics are indicated in drug-resistant infections? Carbapenems"
"Carbapenems treat meningitis and pneumonia caused by gram negative pathogens"
"Which carbapenem antibiotic is inhibited by the kidney? Imipenem"
"Imipenem is rapidly degraded by renal dehydropeptidase I"
"Cilastatin inhibits the enzyme dehydropeptidase I in the kidneys"
"What drug is always administered with Imipenem? Cilastatin"
"Which β-lactam antibiotics can cause GI side effects? Carbapenems"
"Carbapenems may cause skin rash"
"Which β-lactam antibiotic lowers the seizure threshold? Imipenem"
"What is the susceptibility of Carbapenems to β-lactamases? Resistant"
"What antibiotics are the drug of choice for Enterobacter? Carbapenems"
"Which antibiotic class is used against extended spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing gram-negative bacteria? Carbapenems"
"Which carbapenem has a decreased risk of seizure? Meropenem"
"Which carbapenem is stable to dehydropeptidase I? Meropenem"
"Vancomycin has activity against gram positives"
"What is the treatment of methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)? Vancomycin"
"Vancomycin works by binding directly to the D-alanyl-D-alanine of peptidoglycan bacterial cell walls"
"Can Vancomycin be used to treat gram negatives? No"
"Which antibiotic binds directly to the D-ala-D-ala sequence of bacterial cell walls? Vancomycin"
"Vancomycin is bacterio-cidal"
"What is the susceptibility of Vancomycin to β-lactamases? Resistant (ineffective)"
"β-lactamases are synthesized by plasmid genes"
"How is Vancomycin typically administered? IV"
"Vancomycin can::can/cannot penetrate the CNS"
"Ceftriaxone and Vancomycin are used in the empiric treatment of meningitis"
"What is the treatment of MRSA osteomyelitis? Vancomycin"
"Which two antibiotics are used to treat nosocomial MRSA infections? Vancomycin; Linezolid"
"Vancomycin is used to treat staph epidermidis, which creates a biofilm on prosthetic devices"
"Which antibiotic is used in the empiric treatment of bacterial endocarditis? Vancomycin"
"Sensitive Enterococcus spp. are treated with vancomycin or IV ampicillin"
"Enterococcus spp. (VRE) can alter its peptidoglycan to D-ala-D-lac, conferring resistance to Vancomycin"
"What is the first line treatment of pseudomembranous colitis (C. difficile)? Oral Vancomycin"
"Which bug causes pseudomembranous colitis? C. difficile"
"Which antibiotic is used to treat C. difficile (pseudomembranous colitis) that is unresponsive to Vancomycin? Oral metronidazole"
"Which antibiotic causes red man syndrome? Vancomycin"
"Red man syndrome results from direct activation of mast cells leading to histamine release upon vancomycin administration"
"Red man syndrome is characterized by erythema, pruritus, and widespread flushing"
"Red man syndrome is characterized by histamine release with possible hypo-tension"
"Red man syndrome can be avoided by slowing the infusion of vancomycin"
"Red man syndrome can be avoided by pre-treating with anti-histamines"
"Which antibiotic can cause thrombophlebitis at the injection site? Vancomycin"
"Vancomycin is known to be both oto-toxic and nephro-toxic"
"Vancomycin is a known cause of DRESS syndrome, with eosinophilia and skin rash"
"Vancomycin is a known cause of eosino-philia and skin rash"
"90% of Vancomycin is excreted by glomerular filtration"
"Damage to which organ can result in problems with Vancomycin clearance? Kidneys"
"Vancomycin-intermediate staphylococcus aureus (VISA) has an unusually thickened cell wall"
"What drug class includes tetracycline, doxycycline and minocycline? Tetracyclines"
"Tetracyclines bind the 30s subunit of ribosomes, preventing attachment of aminoacyl-tRNA"
"Tetracyclines are bacterio-static"
"β-lactam antibiotics are bacterio-cidal"
"Tetracyclines bind reversibly::reversibly or irreversibly to the 30s ribosomal subunit of bacteria"
"Which bacteria are susceptible to tetracyclines? broad spectrum"
"Tetracyclines have activity against methicillin-resistant Staph aureus (MRSA)"
"What is the first line treatment of Borrelia burgdorferi (lyme disease)? Doxycycline"
"Tetracyclines have activity against tick-borne organisms (rickettsia, francisella, borrelia)"
"What is the treatment of culture-negative endocarditis caused by Coxiella? Doxycycline (along with hydroxychloroquine)"
"Tetracyclines (doxycycline) antibiotics accumulate intracellularly, making them effective against Rickettsia, Chlamydia, and Coxiella"
"What is the treatment of the plague caused by Yersinia pestis? Doxycycline with streptomycin::2"
"Doxycycline is a protein synthesis inhibitor that binds to the 30s subunit and can be used in the treatment of chlamydia"
"Azithromycin is a protein synthesis inhibitor that binds to the 50s subunit and can be used in the treatment of chlamydia"
"Pelvic inflammatory disease caused by Chlamydia can be treated with either azithromycin or doxycycline"
"Doxycycline and azithromycin are protein synthesis inhibitors that can be used to treat atypical pneumonia caused by Mycoplasma pneumonia and Chlamydia"
"What cutaneous pathology can be treated with tetracyclines? Acne"
"Tetracyclines are protein synthesis inhibitors that bind to the 30s subunit and can be used in the treatment of acne."
"Which antibiotics bind divalent ions (Fe2+, Ca2+, and Mg2+) resulting in chelation? Tetracyclines; Fluoroquinolones::2"
"Which antibiotics should be not be taken with antacids, milk, or ferrous sulfate? Tetracyclines; Fluoroquinolones::2"
"What adverse effect is associated with tetracycline use in children? Teeth discoloration"
"What class of antibiotics can cause teeth discoloration in children? Tetracyclines"
"Tetracyclines can deposit in teeth and bone; therefore they are contraindicated in children; pregnant women and breastfeeding women"
"What class of antibiotics are teratogens, depositing in fetal teeth and bone? Tetracyclines"
"Tetracyclines are associated with GI side effects"
"Tetracyclines are associated with photosensitivity::cutaneous complication"
"Which antibiotics are associated with photosensitivity, teeth discoloration and GI side effects? Tetracyclines"
"Fanconi syndrome (type 2 RTA) is associated with the use of expired tetracyclines"
"What renal adverse effect is precipitated by use of expired tetracyclines? Fanconi syndrome (Type 2 Renal tubular acidosis)"
"Resistance to Tetracyclines includes bacterial production of efflux pumps"
"Resistance to Tetracyclines includes bacterial ribosomal modification/protection via soluble GTPase analogues"
"Tetracyclines are generally contraindicated in patients with renal failure"
"Which Tetracycline can be used in patients with renal failure? Doxycycline"
"Which Tetracycline is fecally excreted? Doxycycline"
"Daptomycin is bacterio-cidal"
"What is the spectrum of activity for Daptomycin? Gram positives"
"Which antibiotic inserts itself into the cell membrane, causing depolarization of the cell membrane? Daptomycin"
"Daptomycin inserts its lipid tail into the cell wall, causing membrane depolarization"
"Daptomycin can be used to treat vancomycin-resistant bacterial strains"
"What lipopeptide can be used to treat VRE (vancomycin resistant enterococcus)? Daptomycin"
"Daptomycin is a lipopeptide that can be used to treat MRSA bacteremia"
"Daptomycin can treat endocarditis caused by Staph aureus"
"Vancomycin-resistant Staph aureus can be treated by daptomycin"
"Can daptomycin be used to treat pneumonia? No"
"Daptomycin::Antibiotic is inactivated by alveolar surfactant and thus cannot be used to treat pneumonia"
"Which antibiotic can present with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis? Daptomycin"
"Daptomycin is associated with myopathy and rhabdomyolysis"
"What enzyme levels should be monitored in a patient on daptomycin? Creatine phosphokinase (CPK)"
"What suffix is associated with Macrolide antibiotics? -thromycin"
"Macrolide (-thromycin) antibiotics are bacterio-static"
"Macrolides bind the bacterial 23s rRNA of the 50s subunit, blocking amino-acyl transpeptidation and translocation"
"Which antibiotic class binds the 23S rRNA of the 50S ribosomal subunit of bacteria? Macrolides (-thromycin)"
"Whooping cough is caused by Bordetella pertussis"
"What is the drug of choice for whooping cough (Bordetella pertussis)? Macrolides (erythromycin)"
"Those in close contact with individuals infected with Bordetella pertussis (whooping cough) should receive prophylactic macrolides (erythromycin)"
"Macrolides can be used to treat community-acquired pneumonia in those with a(n) penicillin allergy"
"Macrolides can be used to treat community-acquired pneumonia caused by S. pneumonia, H. influenza, and Moraxella catarrhalis"
"Macrolides (azithromycin) treat atypical \walking\\" pneumonia caused by Legionella"
"What is the drug of choice for treatment of neonatal conjunctivitis (caused by Neisseria or Chlamydia)? Erythromycin"
"Erythromycin is used in neonates with neonatal conjunctivitis caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae (early) or Chlamydia trachomatis D-K (late)"
"Azithromycin is a macrolide that can be given with atovaquone to treat Babesia"
"Erythromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that can be used to treat diphtheria caused by Corynebacterium diphtheriae"
"Which antibiotic is used as treatment for Bartonella henselae (cat-scratch)? Azithromycin"
"Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that can be used in prophylaxis of Mycobacterium avium complex in patients with CD4 count < 50"
"Which antibiotic can bind GI motilin receptors, resulting in diarrhea? Erythromycin"
"Erythromycin::macrolide can bind GI motilin receptors, increasing GI motility and causing diarrhea"
"Which antibiotics can result in acute cholestatic hepatitis? Macrolides (-thromycin)"
"Macrolides (-thromycin) can cause acute cholestatic hepatitis, resulting in jaundice"
"Which antibiotics (2) can prolong the QT interval? Macrolides; Fluoroquinolones"
"Macrolides (-thromycin) can prolong the QT interval, predisposing to Torsades de pointes"
"Clarithromycin and erythromycin inhibit cytochrome p-450"
"Which macrolide antibiotic(s) inhibit CYP450? Clarithromycin, erythromycin"
"Which macrolide antibiotic(s) does not inhibit CYP450? Azithromycin"
"Clarithromycin, amoxicillin and a proton pump inhibitor are used in Helicobacter pylori infection (triple therapy)"
"Which macrolide antibiotic is embryotoxic? Clarithromycin"
"Which antibiotic use in infants is associated with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis? Erythromycin::specific"
"Resistance to macrolides (-thromycin) occurs via post-transcriptional methylation of the 23S bacterial rRNA"
"What drug class includes clindamycin and lincomycin? Lincosamides"
"Clindamycin is bacterio-static"
"Clindamycin binds the 50S ribosomal subunit inhibiting translocation"
"Which antibiotics bind the 50S ribosomal subunit suppressing translocation? Clindamycin; Macrolides::2"
"What is the spectrum of activity for Clindamycin? Gram positives; anaerobic infections above the diaphragm::2"
"Which protein synthesis inhibitor can be used to treat GAS cellulitis? Clindamycin"
"Clindamycin can be used to treat cellulitis caused by Strep pyogenes (GAS)"
"Clindamycin has activity against methicillin-resistant Staph aureus"
"Clindamycin is actively transported into macrophages and can be used to treat lung abscesses"
"Anaerobic infections above the diaphragm are treated with clindamycin"
"Anaerobic infections below the diaphragm are treated with metronidazole"
"Which antibiotic is used as treatment of oral infections and aspiration pneumonia caused by Bacteroides fragilis? Clindamycin"
"Clindamycin treats anaerobic bugs like Bacteroides fragilis and Clostridium perfringens above the diaphragm"
"Aspiration pneumonia is commonly seen in alcoholics and anesthetized patients"
"Clindamycin can be used to treat infection by Clostridium perfringens; can be acquired from road-rash"
"Which cutaneous pathology can be treated with topical Clindamycin? Acne"
"Clindamycin is a protein synthesis inhibitor that binds to the 50s subunit and can be used in the treatment of acne"
"Bacterial vaginosis caused by Gardnerella vaginalis is treated with clindamycin or metronidazole"
"What is the most common adverse effect of Clindamycin? Diarrhea"
"C. difficile pseudomembranous colitis is classically linked to which protein synthesis inhibiting antibiotic? Clindamycin"
"Concentric hypertrophy is often seen in diastolic::systolic/diastolic heart failure"
"Chloramphenicol is bacterio-static"
"Which two antibiotics bind to the 50S subunit of ribosomes and inhibit translocation? Macrolides and Clindamycin"
"Which antibiotic blocks peptidyltransferase at the 50S subunit? Chloramphenicol"
"What two pathologies is Chloramphenicol used to treat? Rocky mountain spotted fever (Rickettsia) and Meningitis"
"Chloramphenicol is used to treat meningitis caused by Strep pneumoniae, H. influenzae and Neisseria meningitidis"
"Which antibiotic is typically used to treat meningitis in developing countries? Chloramphenicol"
"Which antibiotic is an alternative agent for Rickettsial infections, especially in pregnancy when doxycycline is contraindicated? Chloramphenicol"
"When should Chloramphenicol be used for the treatment of Rickettsial infections? Pregnancy"
"Which protein synthesis inhibitor can cause dose-independent aplastic anemia? Chloramphenicol"
"Which bacterial protein synthesis inhibitor can cause dose-independent bone marrow suppression? Chloramphenicol"
"Which protein synthesis inhibitor can cause Gray baby syndrome in infants? Chloramphenicol"
"Which protein synthesis inhibitor can cause dose-dependent anemia? Chloramphenicol"
"Which antibiotic binds to the 50S ribosomal subunit and inhibits formation of the initiation complex? Linezolid"
"Linezolid binds to the 50S ribosomal subunit and inhibits formation of the initiation complex"
"Linezolid is bacterio-static**"
"What is the spectrum of coverage for Linezolid? Gram positives"
"Linezolid has activity against resistant organisms, including MRSA and VRE"
"Which two antibiotics can be used to treat vancomycin resistant bacteria? Linezolid; Daptomycin"
"Linezolid can be used to treat vancomycin-resistant bacteria (e.g. Enterococcus)"
"Which bacterial protein synthesis inhibitor can cause thrombocytopenia (besides chloramphenicol)? Linezolid"
"Linezolid can result in thrombocyto-penia (hematologic complication)"
"Long term use of Linezolid can result in optic and peripheral neuropathy"
"Which protein synthesis inhibitor can result in optic and peripheral neuropathy? Linezolid"
"Which protein synthesis inhibitor can precipitate serotonin syndrome? Linezolid"
"Linezolid is a weak MAO inhibitor, thus predisposing patients to serotonin syndrome"
"Which antibiotic can precipitate serotonin toxicity when coadministered with SSRIs, SNRIs, MAOIs, and bupropion? Linezolid"
"Aminoglycosides are known to be both oto-toxic and nephro-toxic"
"Mechanism of resistance of linezolid includes a(n) point mutation of the ribosomal RNA"
"Quinupristin-dalfopristin is a combination of two synergistic streptogramins that have activity against VRE"
"Quinupristin-dalfopristin bind to the 50S ribosomal subunit"
"Aminoglycosides, their toxicities, and their coverage can be remembered by the mnemonic Mean GNATS caNNOT kill anaerobes"
"Aminoglycosides can be remembered by the mnemonic GNATS: Gentamicin Neomycin Amikacin Tobramycin Streptomycin"
"Aminoglycoside toxicities can be remembered by the mnemonic caNNOT: Nephrotoxicity Neuromuscular blockade Ototoxicity Teratogen (deafness in neonates)"
"Aminoglycosides are bacterio-cidal"
"Aminoglycosides bind the 30S ribosomal subunit, irreversibly inhibiting formation of the initiation complex"
"Which antibiotic binds the 30S ribosomal subunit, irreversibly inhibiting formation of the initiation complex? Aminoglycosides"
"Aminoglycosides cause the misreading of mRNA, inhibiting translation and thus protein synthesis"
"Which antibiotic causes the misreading of mRNA and inhibition of translation? Aminoglycosides"
"What is the coverage of Aminoglycosides? Gram negatives (aerobic)"
"Which antibiotics are commonly paired with β-lactams or vancomycin to enhance their penetration of cells? Aminoglycosides"
"Aminoglycosides are commonly paired with β-lactams or vancomycin to enhance their penetration of cells"
"Which antibiotics are actively transported into the cell via an oxygen-dependent process? Aminoglycosides"
"Aminoglycosides are actively transported into the cell via a(n) oxygen-dependent process"
"What is the most common route of administration of Aminoglycosides? IV"
"Which Aminoglycoside is not given intravenously? Neomycin"
"Neomycin is an aminoglycoside applied topically or ingested as a(n) ammonium detoxicant"
"Which aminoglycoside remains active in the GI tract? Neomycin"
"Which aminoglycoside is used in bowel prep before colorectal surgery? Neomycin"
"Neomycin is an aminoglycoside used in bowel prep before colorectal surgery"
"Which aminoglycoside is a GI intraluminal agent active against parasites? Paromomycin"
"Which aminoglycoside treats tulermia caused by Francisella tularensis? Streptomycin"
"Streptomycin is an aminoglycoside that treats tulermia caused by Francisella tularensis"
"Doxycycline with Streptomycin are used to treat the plague caused by Yersinia pestis"
"Which aminoglycosides are used to treat septicemia, respiratory tract infections and UTIs caused by gram negatives? Gentamicin, Tobramycin, Amikacin::3"
"Which aminoglycosides have activity against Pseudomonas? Gentamicin; Tobramycin; Amikacin"
"Since Aminoglycosides have an oxygen-dependent uptake into cells, they are ineffective against anaerobes"
"Bacterial transferase enzymes can inactivate aminoglycosides via acetylation"
"The ototoxicity of aminoglycosides can cause either vestibular or cochlear damage"
"Toxicities of aminoglycosides are worsened when administered with loop diuretics or vancomycin"
"Which antibiotics can result in acute tubular necrosis? Aminoglycosides"
"Aminoglycosides result in nephrotoxicity, specifically acute tubular necrosis"
"Which neuromuscular pathology is an absolute contraindication to aminoglycoside use? Myasthenia gravis"
"Which antibiotics can result in neuromuscular blockade? Aminoglycosides"
"What class of antibiotics are teratogenic, causing deafness in newborns? Aminoglycosides"
"Aminoglycosides are teratogenic, causing deafness in newborns"
"Muddy brown casts in the urine are diagnostic of acute tubular necrosis"
"Which RIPE therapy drug can cause drug-induced lupus? Isoniazid"
"What type of Anthrax presents with cutaneous ulcers with black eschars? Cutaneous Anthrax"
"Bacillus anthracis is often described as large gram positive bacilli::shape/stain in chains::what arrangement?"
"Which amino acid is a key component of the bacterial capsule in Bacillus anthracis? D-glutamate"
"Which bacteria has a protein capsule made with D-glutamate? Bacillus anthracis"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Bacillus anthracis? obligate aerobe"
"Bacillus anthracis is a gram-positive, spore-forming rod that causes Anthrax via the anthrax toxin"
"Edema Factor is an exotoxin from Bacillus anthracis that mimics Adenylate Cyclase, thereby increasing cAMP levels"
"Which Bacillus anthracis exotoxin is responsible for the black eschars seen in cutaneous anthrax? Lethal factor"
"Lethal factor is an exotoxin from Bacillus anthracis that cleaves MAPK, resulting in tissue necrosis and black eschar formation on the skin"
"What are the two exotoxins released by Bacillus anthracis? Edema factor (EF) and Lethal factor (LF)"
"Wool-sorter's disease is a type of pulmonary anthrax due to the inhalation of spores from contaminated wool"
"Pulmonary Anthrax presents with flu-like symptoms that rapidly progress to fever, pulmonary hemorrhage, mediastinitis and shock"
"Pulmonary Anthrax is due to inhalation of Bacillus anthracis spores"
"What is a classic finding of pulmonary anthrax on CXR? Widening of the mediastinum"
"What class of drugs is first line in the treatment of Bacillus anthracis? Fluoroquinolones"
"What drug is second line in the treatment of Bacillus anthracis? Doxycycline"
"Bacillus cereus, like anthracis, is aerobic and spore-forming"
"Bacillus anthracis and cereus are gram-positive::positive/negative bacilli (rods)::shape"
"Which chemical found in the core of bacterial spores provides heat resistance? Dipicolinic Acid"
"What food source is associated with Bacillus cereus food poisoning? Reheated rice"
"Reheating rice can result in food poisoning from Bacillus cereus"
"The Emetic type of Bacillus cereus food poisoning presents with nausea and vomiting within 1-5 hrs of consumption"
"The Diarrheal type of Bacillus cereus food poisoning presents with watery, nonbloody diarrhea and GI pain within 8-18 hrs of consumption"
"Which type of Bacillus cereus food poisoning has the shortest incubation period? Emetic type"
"Cereulide is an enterotoxin that causes the Emetic type of Bacillus cereus food poisoning"
"What bacterial spores can get into wool and animal hide, thus predisposing workers to infection? Bacillus anthracis"
"All Clostridia are gram positive bacilli::...and shape, spore-forming, obligate anaerobes"
"Which bacteria has spores found in rusty nails or in soil? Clostridium tetani"
"What type of paralysis is seen with Clostridium tetani? Spastic paralysis::spastic or flaccid"
"Which bacterial infection can result in risus sardonicus and lock jaw (trismus)? Clostridium tetani"
"Which bacterial infection can result in opisthotonus? Clostridium tetani"
"In which direction does tetanus toxin migrate to the CNS? Retrograde axonal transport"
"Tetanospasmin is an exotoxin from Clostridium tetani that cleaves SNARE proteins required for neurotransmitter release"
"The Tetanospasmin toxin (from Clostridium tetani) inhibits the release of which neurotransmitters? GABA; Glycine::2"
"Tetanus toxin inhibits inhibitory release of GABA and glycine from Renshaw cells in the spinal cord"
"What bacteria releases a toxin that cleaves SNARE proteins in Renshaw cells? Clostridium tetani"
"What type of vaccine is used for Clostridium tetani? Toxoid"
"Which bacteria is commonly transmitted via improper canning of food? Clostridium botulinum"
"What type of paralysis is seen with Clostridium botulinum? Flaccid paralysis (\botulism\\")::Spastic or Flaccid\""
"The flaccid paralysis in Clostridium botulinum is a(n) descending::ascending or descending paralysis"
"Clostridium botulinum can present with what early clinical signs? Diplopia & ptosis::2"
"Does Clostridium botulinum affect the CNS, PNS, or both? PNS"
"Clostridium botulinum in adults causes botulism via ingestion of preformed::preformed or spore toxin"
"Clostridium botulinum in babies causes botulism via ingestion of spores from honey or juice::food"
"Botulinum Toxin is an exotoxin from Clostridium botulinum that cleaves SNARE proteins required for neurotransmitter release"
"Botulinum toxin of Clostridium botulinum targets motor neurons"
"Which neurotransmitter's release is prevented by the Botulinum toxin from Clostridium botulinum? Acetylcholine"
"Floppy Baby Syndrome is due to Clostridium botulinum infection; seen in babies following ingestion of spores in honey"
"Which bacteria's spores are commonly found in honey? Clostridium botulinum"
"All Clostridium spp. are anaerobic, gram positive rods"
"What is the most important risk factor for abdominal aortic aneurysm? Smoking (up to 15-fold risk increase)"
"All Clostridium spp. are spore-forming"
"Clostridioides difficile is a nosocomial infection that commonly follows antibiotic (e.g. ampicillin, clindamycin)::2 examples use"
"What two exotoxins are produced by Clostridioides difficile? Toxin A (enterotoxin) and Toxin B (cytotoxin)"
"Which exotoxin from Clostridioides difficile functions to bind to the brush border of the gut? Toxin A (enterotoxin)"
"Which exotoxin of Clostridioides difficile is a brush border toxin that causes watery diarrhea? Toxin A (enterotoxin)"
"Which Clostridioides difficile exotoxin results in depolymerization of actin leading to enterocyte death and necrosis? Toxin B (cytotoxin)"
"Toxin B from Clostridioides difficile causes actin depolymerization (cytoskeleton disruption), thereby causing pseudomembranous colitis and diarrhea"
"What type of diarrhea is caused by Clostridioides difficile? Watery"
"Clostridioides difficile is diagnosed via assay to detect toxins (A & B) in stool or via PCR"
"What is first-line in the treatment of Clostridioides difficile? Oral Vancomycin::also ROA"
"What is first-line in the treatment of Clostridioides difficile? Oral Vancomycin"
"Which bacteria is associated with traumatic open wound infection? Clostridium perfringens"
"Which bacteria is associated with military combat wounds and motorcycle accidents? Clostridium perfringens"
"Spores of Clostridium perfringens are commonly found in soil"
"Which organism can produce gas under tissue (gas gangrene)? Clostridium perfringens"
"Clostridium perfringens can result in a crepitus and crackling upon palpation of the infected area of skin"
"Which bacteria produces an alpha toxin that functions as a phospholipase (lecithinase)? Clostridium perfringens"
"Clostridium perfringens produces a(n) alpha toxin that functions as a(n) phospholipase (lecithinase)"
"The alpha toxin of Clostridium perfringens breaks down phospholipids, resulting in myonecrosis (\gas gangrene\\")\""
"Clostridium perfringens breaks down phospholipids, resulting in a(n) double zone of hemolysis on blood agar"
"What food source is associated with Clostridium perfringens food poisoning? Reheated meat dishes"
"Clostridium perfringens is a anaerobic spore former that can produce a double zone of hemolysis"
"What type of diarrhea is caused by Clostridium perfringens? Watery"
"Which bacteria can produce slow-onset diarrhea via spore ingestion? Clostridium perfringens"
"Clostridium perfringens' spores produce heat-labile enterotoxin"
"Corynebacterium diphtheriae are gram positive rods"
"Which bacteria is commonly described as club-shaped in a V or Y formation? Corynebacterium diphtheriae"
"Which gram positive rod will present with metachromatic (blue and red) granules? Corynebacterium diphtheriae"
"What organism produces a similar toxin that has the same MOA as C. diphtheriae toxin? Pseudomonas"
"Diphtheria toxin causes ADP-ribosylation of EF-2 (elongation factor-2), thus inhibiting protein synthesis"
"Which toxin produced by Corynebacterium diphtheriae inhibits protein synthesis? Diphtheria toxin"
"Corynebacterium diphtheriae will produce a(n) gray::color pseudomembrane on the posterior pharynx and upper airways"
"Corynebacterium diphtheriae is transmitted via respiratory droplets"
"Which bacteria produces a characteristic \bull's neck\\" due to lymphadenopathy? Corynebacterium diphtheriae\""
"The diphtheria toxin of Corynebacterium diphtheriae is encoded by a(n) β-prophage"
"Which gram-positive rod produces an exotoxin that ADP-ribosylates EF-2? Corynebactrium diphtheriae"
"Cardiac symptoms of Corynebacterium diphtheriae infection include myocarditis, arrhythmia, and heart block"
"Which special culture media/agars are used to isolate Corynebacterium diphtheriae? Tellurite agar; Loeffler medium::2"
"Which test is used to differentiate between toxic and nontoxic strains of Corynebacterium diphtheriae? Elek's test"
"Corynebacterium diphtheriae will have a positive Elek's test for toxin"
"What type of vaccine is used for Corynebacterium diphtheriae? Toxoid"
"Listeria monocytogenes is β-hemolytic"
"Listeria monocytogenes is a gram positive rod that is aerobic"
"Which bacteria has a characteristic \tumbling motility\\" extracellularly? Listeria monocytogenes\""
"Listeria monocytogenes is facultative intracellular"
"Which bacteria has characteristic \actin rockets\\" for intracellular movement? Listeria monocytogenes\""
"Listeria monocytogenes forms \rocket tails\\" via actin polymerization for intra-cellular and trans-cellular movement\""
"Which gram positive rods are catalase positive? Listeria monocytogenes, Nocardia, C. diptheria"
"Which gram positive rod grows well at refrigeration temperatures (4°–10°C; “cold enrichment”)? Listeria monocytogenes"
"Listeria monocytogenes commonly contaminates unpasteurized dairy products (e.g. milk, cheese) and cold deli meats"
"Which gram positive rod commonly contaminates unpasteurized dairy products and cold deli meats? Listeria monocytogenes"
"Which demographic is at an increased risk of Listeria monocytogenes infection? Pregnant women"
"Which bacteria is the 3rd-most common cause of neonatal meningitis? Listeria monocytogenes"
"What age group of adults are commonly affected with Listeria monocytogenes meningitis? Elderly (> 60 y.o.)"
"What is the treatment of Listeria monocytogenes? Ampicillin"
"How does Listeriosis (Listeria monocytogenes) commonly present in healthy individuals? Mild gastroenteritis"
"What is the only gram-positive bacteria to produce lipopolysaccharide (LPS)? NONE - Sources erroneously report that Listeria monocytogenes has it but UWorld says they're wrong"
"Besides ingestion of contaminated food, how is Listeria monocytogenes transmitted? Transplacentally; vaginally during childbirth"
"Nocardia is a gram positive branching filamentous rod"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Nocardia spp.? Obligate aerobe"
"Nocardia spp. is a gram-positive, filamentous bacteria that is normally found in soil"
"Which gram positive filamentous rod contains mycolic acids in its cell wall? Nocardia"
"Which stain (other than Gram) is used to visualize Nocardia spp.? Acid Fast; Nocardia is weakly acid fast"
"Nocardia stains weakly acid fast due to the mycolic acids found in its cell wall"
"Nocardia is catalase positive, thus patients with chronic granulomatous disease are susceptible to infection"
"What is the urease expression of Nocardia spp? Positive"
"Nocardia causes pulmonary infections in the immuno-compromised"
"Nocardia causes cutaneous infections after trauma in the immuno-competent"
"Which gram positive filamentous rod is associated with pneumonia-like symptoms? Nocardia"
"Which gram positive filamentous rod is associated with cavitary lesions in the lung? Nocardia"
"Nocardia can present with pneumonia-like symptoms and cavitary lesions in the lungs"
"Nocardia dissemination commonly occurs to the CNS"
"Nocardia dissemination commonly occurs to the CNS, causing brain abscess formation"
"What is the treatment for Nocardia spp. infection? Sulfonamides"
"Nocardia is a filamentous-branching gram-positive organism that can cause brain abscess"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Bordetella pertussis? Aerobic"
"Bordetella pertussis is a gram negative coccobacillus"
"What pilus proteins allow Bordetella pertussis to attach to the respiratory epithelium? Filamentous hemagglutinin"
"Which bacteria produces a toxin that ADP-ribosylates and disables Gi receptors? Bordetella pertussis (Pertussis toxin)"
"Pertussis toxin ribosylates Gi, inhibiting::activating or inhibiting the G-protein receptor"
"Inhibition of Gi via the pertussis toxin results in increased levels of cAMP"
"Inhibition of Gi via the pertussis toxin inhibits chemokine receptors on lymphocytes"
"Which bacteria releases a toxin which inhibits chemokine receptors on lymphocytes, ultimately resulting in lymphocytosis? Bordetella pertussis"
"Which toxin of Bordetella pertussis is an ADP-ribosylating toxin? Pertussis toxin"
"Which toxin of Bordetella pertussis mimics the activity of adenylate cyclase? Adenylate cyclase toxin"
"Which toxin of Bordetella pertussis inhibits DNA synthesis in ciliated epithelial cells? Tracheal toxin"
"Tracheal toxin is produced by Bordetella pertussis and functions to damage ciliated epithelial tissue"
"What are the three stages of Bordetella pertussis infection? Catarrhal::1-2wks Paroxysmal::2wks - 2ms Convalescent::3ms"
"Which stage of Bordetella pertussis infection is characterized by non-specific fever and conjunctival injection? Catarrhal"
"Which stage of Bordetella pertussis infection is characterized by whooping cough and post-tussive vomiting? Paroxysmal"
"Which stage of Bordetella pertussis infection is characterized by gradual recovery? Convalescent"
"Whooping cough caused by Bordetella pertussis involves a cough on expiration and a \whoop\\" on inspiration\""
"Bordetella pertussis should be treated early with macrolides (erythromycin)"
"What is the route of transmission of Bordetella pertussis? Respiratory droplets"
"What type of vaccine is used for Bordetella pertussis in infants and children? Acellular (DTaP)"
"Bordetella pertussis can be cultured on Regan-Lowe or Bordet-Gengou (potato) agar"
"What type of bacteria (gram stain, shape) is Pseudomonas? Gram negative rod"
"Pseudomonas is known to thrive in aquatic environments"
"What is the oxidase expression of Pseudomonas aeruginosa? Positive"
"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is catalase positive, thus patients with chronic granulomatous disease are susceptible to infection"
"What color pigment is associated with Pseudomonas aeruginosa? Blue-green"
"What substances produced by Pseudomonas give it a blue-green pigment? Pyocyanin and Pyoverdin::2"
"Which bacteria is associated with a fruity, grape-like odor? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Pseudomonas aeruginosa? Obligate aerobe"
"Which gram-negative obligate aerobe often causes nosocomial pneumonia? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Which gram-negative bacteria is associated with pneumonia in cystic fibrosis patients? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Pseudomonas causes pneumonia and respiratory failure in cystic fibrosis patients"
"What two groups are susceptible to osteomyelitis from Pseudomonas? IVDU, Diabetics"
"Which gram-negative bacteria is associated with Diabetic Osteomyelitis? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"What feature of Pseudomonas is anti-phagocytic? Bacterial capsule"
"Which gram-negative bacteria is associated with wound and burn infections? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Nosocomial UTIs due to Pseudomonas are commonly associated with catheters"
"Which gram-negative bacteria is associated with hot tub folliculitis? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Ecthyma Gangrenosum is a cutaneous disorder caused by Pseudomonas spp. that is described as rapidly progressive, necrotic cutaneous lesions"
"Black necrotic skin lesions seen in Pseudomonas patients are indicative of ecthyma gangrenosum"
"Which gram-negative bacteria is associated with Otitis Externa (swimmer's ear)? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Which exotoxin from Pseudomonas aeruginosa functions to inactivate EF-2 via ADP-Ribosylation? Exotoxin A"
"Which gram-negative rod produces an exotoxin that ADP-ribosylates EF-2? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Exotoxin A causes ADP-ribosylation of EF-2 (elongation factor-2), thus inhibiting protein synthesis"
"What organism(s) produce a toxin that ADP-ribosylates EF-2, inhibiting protein synthesis? Pseudomonas aeruginosa; Corynebacterium diphtheriae"
"Which Pseudomonas virulence factor degrades cell membranes? Phospholipase C"
"Which protein found in Pseudomonas aeruginosa functions to generate ROS that kill competing microbes? Pyocyanin"
"The mnemonic CAMPFIRE can be used to remember the drugs effective against Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"The mnemonic CAMPFIRE can be used to remember the drugs effective against Pseudomonas aeruginosa Carbapenems Aminoglycosides Monobactams (aztreonam) Polymixins (polymixin B, colistin) Fluoroquinolones (cipro, levofloxacin) IR : thIRd and fourth-gen cephalosporins (ceftazidime, cefepime) Extended spectrum (antipseudomonal) penicillins (piperacillin, ticarcillin)"
"What is the treatment for a UTI caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa? Ciprofloxacin; Levofloxacin::2 specific"
"To remember the protein synthesis inhibiting antibiotics, the mnemonic \Buy AT 30"
"To remember the protein synthesis inhibiting antibiotics, the pneumonia \Buy AT 30"
"Rickettsia spp. is obligate intracellular and thus cannot make its own ATP"
"Why doesn't Rickettsia spp. gram stain well? Obligate intracellular bacteria"
"All Rickettsiae spp. are obligate intracellular organisms as they require CoA and NAD+"
"What is the shape of Rickettsia spp.? Coccobacillus"
"The Weil-Felix test is an agglutination test used to diagnose Rickettsia spp."
"The Weil-Felix test checks for cross reactivity between Rickettsia spp. and Proteus vulgaris"
"What are two specific symptoms of Rickettsia spp. infection? Rash and Vasculitis"
"What is the drug of choice for Rickettsia. spp? Doxycycline"
"Which Rickettsia spp. is characterized by a rash that starts at the trunk, spreading outwards to the extremities? Rickettsia prowazekii; Rickettsia typhi::2"
"Which Rickettsia spp. commonly affects military camp recruits and POWs? Rickettsia prowazekii"
"What is the vector for Epidemic Typhus (Rickettsia prowazeki)? Human Body Louse"
"What is the vector for Endemic Typhus (Rickettsia typhi)? Fleas"
"Typhus (R. prowazekii, R. typhi)::disease name and pathogens presents with a rash that starts centrally and spreads out, but spares the palms and soles"
"Epidemic Typhus is caused by Rickettsia prowazekii"
"What is the etiology of Endemic Typhus? Rickettsia typhi"
"Rickettsia prowazekii may result in muscle and joint pain"
"Which Rickettsia spp. can result in pneumonia? Rickettsia prowazekii"
"Which Rickettsia spp. causes encephalitis (with dizziness and confusion)? Rickettsia prowazekii"
"Rickettsia prowazekii can cause encephalitis, characterized by dizziness and confusion"
"What is the etiology of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever? Rickettsia rickettsii"
"What stain is used to visualize Rickettsia? Giemsa"
"What is the vector for Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever (Rickettsia rickettsii)? Dermacentor ticks"
"Does the rash for Rickettsia rickettsii have an immediate onset? No"
"When does the rash for Rocky mountain spotted fever appear? After 2-14 day incubation"
"Which Rickettsia spp. is characterized by a rash that starts at the extremities, spreading inwards to the trunk? Rickettsia rickettsii"
"Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is a Rickettsial disease that presents with a rash that typically starts at the wrists and ankles and then spreads to the trunk, palms and soles"
"Ehrlichiosis is a Rickettsial disease that presents with monocytes with morulae in their cytoplasm"
"Anaplasmosis is a Rickettsial disease that presents with neutrophils (granulocytes) with morulae in their cytoplasm"
"In which area of the United States is Lyme Disease common? Northeastern United States"
"Which vector transmits Lyme Disease (Borrelia burgdorferi)? Ixodes tick"
"The Ixodes tick is involved in the transmission of Borrelia burgdorferi, Anaplasma spp., and Babesia"
"What is the Reservoir of Ixodes tick larvae? Mouse"
"What is the Obligatory host of Ixodes ticks? Deer (ixodes is a deer tick)"
"What is the shape of Borrelia burgdorferi? Spirochete"
"What is the only Spirochete that can be visualized using aniline dyes (Wright or Giemsa) in light microscopy? Borrelia"
"What two stains can be used to visualize Borrelia burgdorferi? Wright stain; Giemsa stain"
"What is the etiology of Lyme Disease? Borrelia burgdorferi"
"Lyme disease consists of 3 stages"
"Erythema Chronicum Migrans is an initial cutaneous feature of Lyme disease that is described as an expanding \bull's eye\\""
"Which disease commonly presents with erythema chronicum migrans? Lyme disease"
"Which stage of Lyme disease can present with erythema chronicum migrans? Stage 1"
"Which stage of Lyme disease is early and localized? Stage 1"
"Which stage of Lyme disease is early and disseminated? Stage 2"
"Which stage of Lyme disease is late and disseminated? Stage 3"
"Stage 1 Lyme disease commonly presents with flu-like symptoms"
"Which stage of Lyme disease can present with 3rd degree AV block? Stage 2"
"Which stage of Lyme disease can present with facial nerve palsy? Stage 2"
"What type of facial nerve palsy is seen in Lyme disease? Bilateral bell's palsy (idiopathic)"
"Which stage of Lyme disease can present with migratory myalgias and arthritis? Stage 2"
"Which stage of Lyme disease can present with chronic arthritis? Stage 3"
"Which stage of Lyme disease can present with encephalopathy? Stage 3"
"What two drugs are commonly used for Lyme disease? Doxycycline; Ceftriaxone"
"What drug is first-line in the treatment of Lyme disease? Doxycycline"
"What drugs are first-line in the treatment of Lyme disease in pregnant women? Amoxicillin and Cefuroxime::2"
"Borrelia recurrentis (relapsing fever) is recurrent due to variable surface antigens"
"What is the gram stain of Yersinia? gram negative"
"What is the shape of Yersinia? Coccobacillus"
"How is Yersinia enterocolitica transmitted? Pet feces (puppies); Contaminated Milk; Pork::3"
"Yersinia enterocolitica can be transmitted through puppy feces"
"Which demographic is commonly associated with Yersinia enterocolitica? Toddlers"
"Which gram negative rod is resistant to cold temperatures? Yersinia enterocolitica"
"Yersinia pestis is encapsulated, protecting the bacteria from phagocytosis::encapsulated or non-encapsulated"
"What type of diarrhea is caused by Yersinia enterocolitica? Bloody"
"Yersinia enterocolitica::not EHEC is associated with bloody diarrhea, commonly in toddlers::age group"
"Which gram negative rod can mimic appendicitis (pseudoappendicitis)? Yersinia enterocolitica"
"Yersinia enterocolitica can mimic appendicitis, complete with RLQ::location pain, fever and elevated WBC count"
"What is the cause of Bubonic Plague? Yersinia pestis"
"How is Bubonic Plague (Yersinia pestis) transmitted? Fleas"
"What animals are the reservoir for Yersinia pestis? Rats; Prairie Dogs::2"
"Yersinia pestis (plague) first spreads to the lymph nodes, forming characteristic buboes"
"Yersinia pestis (plague) often escapes the lymph nodes to produce septicemia and widespread necrosis of the organs"
"The YOPS (Yersinia assoc. outer proteins) are secreted via a(n) type III secretion system in Yersinia spp."
"Yersinia spp. is facultative intracellular"
"What is the treatment for Yersinia pestis? Doxycycline + Streptomycin::2"
"What type of vaccine is used for Yersinia pestis? Inactivated/Killed"
"Which family of viruses does Varicella-Zoster Virus (VZV) belong to? Herpesviridae family (HHV-3)"
"Does VZV have an envelope? Yes"
"What is the cause of Chickenpox? VZV (Varicella-Zoster)"
"What is the etiology of Shingles? VZV (Varicella-Zoster)"
"Nonspecific symptoms of Chickenpox caused by VZV include headache and fever"
"What is the route of transmission of VZV? Respiratory droplets"
"The Chickenpox rash is said to have a \dew drops on a rose\\" appearance\""
"Which two viruses are said to have a \dew drops on a rose\\" appearance? VZV"
"Lesions of Chickenpox (VZV) will be in different stages of healing"
"Adults with chickenpox are at a greater risk of developing pneumonia::respiratory complication"
"Adults with chickenpox are at a greater risk of developing encephalitis::CNS complication"
"What are two complications of chickenpox that more commonly present in adults? Pneumonia and Encephalitis"
"Which complication of chickenpox commonly affects the immunocompromised? Encephalitis"
"Which type of vaccine is used for chickenpox? Live, attenuated"
"What is the drug of choice for chickenpox? Acyclovir"
"Which virus remains latent in dorsal root ganglia (DRG)? VZV"
"Where does VZV remain latent? DRG"
"Reactivation of VZV occurs with stress, aging, or an immunocompromised state"
"Which two demographics are commonly affected by Herpes Zoster (shingles)? Elderly and Immunocompromised"
"Reactivation of VZV results in herpes zoster (shingles)"
"Which viral manifestation is said to have a \dew drops on a rose\\" appearance in a dermatomal distribution? Herpes Zoster (shingles)\""
"Herpes Zoster (shingles) is said to have a \dew drops on a rose\\" appearance in a(n) dermatomal distribution\""
"Individuals who are immunocompromised will have a herpes zoster (shingles) rash that crosses midline and should be tested for HIV"
"Is the Herpes Zoster (shingles) rash painful? Extremely!"
"Pain after the rash of Herpes Zoster (shingles) has cleared is known as post-herpetic neuralgia"
"Which cranial nerve can be affected by VZV? Trigeminal (CN V), specifically ophthalmic (V1) branch"
"What manifestation of Herpes Zoster (shingles) affects the Trigeminal nerve? Herpes Zoster Ophthalmicus"
"An individual who is immuno-compromised, with vesicles in a(n) V1 distribution and vision loss may have Herpes Zoster Ophthalmicus"
"What type of vaccine is the Zoster vaccine? Live, attenuated"
"Which demographic is the Shingrix vaccine recommended for? Adults > 50"
"HIV patients with a CD4+ count > 200 may receive the Zoster (shingles) vaccine"
"What drugs can be used to treat Shingles (Herpes zoster)? Famciclovir, Valacyclovir"
"Does VZV display vertical transmission? Yes"
"What type of viruses are paramyxoviruses? Negative sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Which type of virus is parainfluenza (croup)? Paramyxovirus"
"Which family of viruses is mumps a member of? Paramyxoviridae"
"Which family of viruses includes measles? Paramyxoviridae"
"Which type of virus is RSV (respiratory syncytial virus)? Paramyxovirus (negative sense RNA)"
"Which type of virus is human metapneumovirus? Paramyxovirus"
"Do paramyxoviruses have an envelope? Yes"
"What is the route of transmission of paramyxoviruses? Respiratory droplets"
"What type of vaccine is the MMR vaccine? Live, attenuated"
"Can the MMR vaccine be given to pregnant patients? No! (live, attenuated; therefore contraindicated)"
"Measles is also known as rubeola"
"What mnemonic is used to help in the diagnosis of measles (rubeola)? 4 C's (cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, koplik spots)"
"What are the 4 C's of Measles? Cough Coryza (runny/stuffy nose due to inflammation) Conjunctivitis Koplik spots"
"What virus commonly results in Koplik spots? Measles"
"Koplik spots are bright red spots with a(n) blue-white::color center on buccal mucosa"
"A(n) maculopapular rash develops 1-2 days following the prodromal symptoms of measles"
"The measles rash starts on the face and moves down-wards"
"What is a respiratory complication of measles (rubeola)? Giant cell pneumonia::specific"
"What CNS complication can arise with measles (rubeola)? Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE)::long"
"What virus can present with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis? Measles (rubeola)"
"Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis is diagnosed with presence of anti-measles antibodies in CSF"
"Paramyxoviruses can express the virulence factor hemagglutinin which binds sialic acid, promoting viral entry into cells"
"Paramyxoviruses contain surface F (fusion) proteins that cause respiratory epithelial cells to fuse and form multinucleated giant cells"
"Which virulence factor is responsible for multinucleated giant cell formation in paramyxoviruses? Surface F (fusion) proteins"
"Which virus produces Warthin-Finkeldey cells due to its surface fusion (F) proteins? Measles (rubeola)"
"Measles virus commonly presents with Warthin-Finkeldey::proper name giant cells"
"Warthin-Finkeldey giant cells result from measles virus surface F (fusion) proteins acting on lymphocytes::cell type"
"Lymphadenitis with Warthin-Finkeldey giant cells is diagnostic of Measles (rubeola)"
"Which virus can benefit from Vitamin A supplementation? Measles"
"What are the 4 places that mumps is known to replicate? Parotid gland, testes, CNS, pancreas"
"Which paramyxovirus can result in parotitis? Mumps"
"Which paramyxovirus can result in orchitis (unilaterally)? Mumps"
"Which paramyxovirus can result in aseptic meningitis? Mumps"
"Which paramyxovirus can result in pancreatitis? Mumps"
"Which viral virulence factors is Measles associated with? Hemagglutinin; F (fusion) protein::2"
"Which viral virulence factors is Mumps associated with? Hemagglutinin; F (fusion) protein; Neuraminidase"
"RSV (respiratory syncytial virus) is typically seen in children < 6 months of age"
"Which paramyxovirus infects respiratory cells via the G-protein? RSV"
"RSV attaches to the G protein in order to infect respiratory epithelial cells"
"What is the most common cause of pneumonia in infants? Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)"
"What is the most common cause of bronchiolitis in infants? Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)"
"RSV contains the virulence factor F (fusion) protein, which allows the production of multinucleated giant cells"
"Which viral virulence factor is RSV associated with? F (fusion) protein"
"What is the treatment of RSV (respiratory syncytial virus) in adults? Ribavirin"
"What is used for prevention of RSV (respiratory syncytial virus) in premature infants? Palivizumab"
"Palivizumab is a monoclonal antibody against the fusion (F) protein of RSV"
"Palivizumab is used as RSV pneumonia::specific prophylaxis in premature infants"
"Which virus causes croup? Parainfluenza virus"
"What viral complication is characterized by a seal-bark cough and inspiratory stridor? Croup (laryngeotracheobronchitis)"
"Which virulence factors is parainfluenza (croup) associated with? Hemagglutinin; F (fusion) protein; Neuraminidase"
"What is a characteristic finding on CXR for croup (parainfluenza)? Steeple sign"
"Narrowing of the trachea and subglottic region produces the \steeple sign\\" on CXR of croup (parainfluenza virus)\""
"What is another name for croup (parainfluenza infection)? Laryngeotracheobronchitis"
"What is a classic respiratory buzzword for croup (laryngeotracheobronchitis, parainfluenza infection)? Inspiratory stridor (with a seal bark cough)"
"Severe croup (laryngeotracheobronchitis) can result in pulsus paradoxus of blood pressure secondary to upper airway obstruction"
"Which viral virulence factor promotes the release of progeny virions? Neuraminidase"
"Which viral virulence factor binds sialic acid promoting viral entry? Hemagglutinin"
"Hemagglutinin is a virulence factor that binds sialic acid promoting viral entry into cells"
"Which viral virulence factor causes respiratory cell fusion and multinucleated giant cell production? F (fusion) protein"
"p17 is the matrix protein of HIV"
"What *used to be* the rule out test for HIV? ELISA"
"What is the rule in test for HIV? Ag+Ab test for HIV-1 and HIV-2"
"What test determines the amount of viral RNA in plasma? Viral load"
"Hepatitis B is from the hepadnaviridae family"
"What type of virus is Hepatitis B? DNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Does hepatitis B have an envelope? Yes"
"Where does hepatitis B virus replicate? (cytoplasm, nucleus, etc.) Both Nucleus and Cytoplasm :)"
"Hepatitis B virus is partially double-stranded"
"Upon entry into the cell nucleus, HBV DNA-polymerase completes the partially dsDNA"
"Once the dsDNA of HBV is complete, host::host or viral RNA polymerase transcribes mRNA from the dsDNA"
"After mRNA is produced, HBV reverse transcriptase produces progeny dsDNA from mRNA"
"Hepatitis B can be transmitted from mother to baby during delivery"
"When compared to HCV, HBV is less likely to become a chronic infection"
"Newborns infected with HBV have a(n) 90% chance of developing chronic infection"
"Hepatitis B can present like serum sickness: fever, arthralgias, and rash"
"HBV-associated Polyarteritis nodosa affects the vessels of the kidney, resulting in hypertension (HTN) and decreased GFR"
"Hepatitis B virus results in membranous glomerulonephropathy transitioning to membranoproliferative glomerulonephropathy"
"Which demographic will show normal ALT levels in viral hepatitis? Neonates (neonatal hepatitis)"
"What is the first marker that appears in HBV infection? HBsAg"
"What is the second marker that appears in HBV infection? HBeAg"
"What markers are in the blood during early symptomatic HBV infection? HBsAg; HBeAg"
"What is the first detectable antibody in HBV infection? Anti-HBc IgM"
"Which serologic marker is detectable during the window period of HBV infection? Anti-HBc IgM"
"Which serologic markers are detectable during the recovery period of HBV infection? Anti-HBs IgG; Anti-HBc IgG"
"Which serologic marker is detectable due to immunization to HBV? Anti-HBs IgG"
"Chronic::chronic or acute HBV infection can result in cirrhosis"
"HBV is associated with hepatocellular carcinoma"
"Does HBV increase the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma? Yes"
"Hepatitis D virus cannot cause disease without hepatitis B HBsAg"
"What type of virus is Hepatitis D? Negative sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Hepatitis D is from the deltaviridae family"
"Does hepatitis D have an envelope? Yes"
"What is the shape of the HBV genome? Circular"
"What is the shape of the HDV genome? Circular"
"What serologic marker must be present for HDV infection? HBsAg"
"Which HDV infection has a worse outcome, co-infection with HBV or superinfection with HBV? Superinfection with HBV"
"What is the treatment for acute cases of HBV? Supportive"
"Entecavir, tenofovir, and PEG-IFN-alpha can be used to treat HBV"
"Entecavir, tenofovir, and PEG-IFN-alpha can be used to treat HBV"
"Entecavir, tenofovir, and PEG-IFN-alpha can be used to treat HBV"
"Neonates at risk for HBV infection at birth are given anti-HBV immunoglobulins"
"Does hepatitis A have an envelope? No (naked)"
"Does hepatitis E have an envelope? No (naked)"
"Does hepatitis C have an envelope? Yes"
"What family of viruses does HAV belong to? Picornaviridae"
"What type of virus is Hepatitis A? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"What type of viruses are picornaviruses? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Do picornaviruses have an envelope? No (naked)"
"What is the route of transmission of most picornaviruses? Fecal-oral"
"Positive sense RNA viruses are translated to proteins directly by host cell ribosomes"
"Picornaviruses produce a large polyprotein product (inactive) that is cleaved into smaller subunits (active)"
"Where do Positive sense RNA viruses usually replicate? Cytoplasm"
"What family of viruses do Enteroviruses belong to? Picornaviridae"
"What family of viruses do Rhinoviruses belong to? Picornaviridae"
"Which picornavirus can cause hepatosplenomegaly? HAV"
"What are the three common Enteroviruses (picornaviridae family)? Coxsackie A/B; Polioviruses; Echovirus"
"Which type of meningitis is caused by a non-bacterial organism? Aseptic meningitis"
"What group of viruses are the most common cause of aseptic meningitis? Enteroviruses (picornaviridae family)"
"CSF glucose in viral meningitis is normal"
"CSF protein in viral meningitis is increased::normal, inc, dec."
"What demographic is most susceptible to viral (aseptic) meningitis caused by enteroviruses? Children"
"What virus is the most common cause of the common cold? Rhinovirus"
"Hepatitis A virus is acid-stable"
"Hepatitis E virus is acid-stable"
"Developed countries purify their water supply, eliminating HAV infection risk (fecal-oral transmission)"
"What is a source of hepatitis A virus in developing countries? Contaminated water"
"What is a source of hepatitis A virus in developed countries? Contaminated shellfish"
"HAV infection is commonly seen in travelers to endemic areas"
"What cutaneous complication arises with HAV infection? Jaundice"
"Which demographic can commonly display anicteric hepatitis A infection? Young children and infants"
"Smokers with hepatitis A virus will develop an aversion to tobacco products"
"Hepatitis A infection symptoms typically last 1 month"
"Which hepatitis virus infection is often self-limiting? HAV"
"Does hepatitis A virus induce a carrier state in infected individuals? No"
"Does Hepatitis A have a vaccine? Yes!"
"What type of vaccine is the HAV vaccine? Inactivated/killed"
"Picornavirus have viral proteases which cleave the large translated polypeptide into functional viral proteins"
"What type of viruses are Flaviviruses? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Do Flaviviruses have an envelope? Yes"
"What family of viruses does HCV belong to? Flaviviridae"
"Are flaviviruses segmented or non-segmented? Non-segmented"
"What family of viruses does Dengue fever belong to? Flaviviridae"
"Which vector transmits Dengue? Mosquito, specifically the Aedes"
"Dengue fever infects the bone marrow"
"What is the most common type of Dengue fever? Type 2"
"How does Dengue fever affect bleeding time? Increased"
"Dengue fever is a type of hemorrhagic fever due to it causing thrombocytopenia"
"Dengue fever can result in renal failure"
"What is the treatment of Dengue fever? Supportive (no treatment at this time)*"
"What family of viruses does Yellow fever belong to? Flaviviridae"
"Which zone of the liver is affected by Yellow Fever? Zone II (intermediate zone)"
"Which vector transmits Yellow Fever? Mosquito, specifically the Aedes"
"What is a cutaneous complication of Yellow Fever? Jaundice"
"Yellow fever classically causes an aching back"
"What changes in stool are seen with Yellow fever? Bloody diarrhea"
"What type of vomiting is seen with Yellow fever? Black (bloody) vomiting"
"What type of vaccine is available for Yellow fever? Live, attenuated"
"What is seen on liver biopsy in Yellow fever? Councilman bodies"
"Which two viruses can present with councilman bodies on liver biopsy? HAV; Yellow Fever"
"What family of viruses does West nile virus belong to? Flaviviridae"
"What is the reservoir of West nile virus? Birds"
"What is the vector of West nile virus? Mosquitos"
"West nile virus can result in meningoencephalitis"
"The meningitis caused by West nile virus can result in a(n) flaccid::spastic or flaccid paralysis"
"The meningoencephalitis caused by West nile virus can result in seizures and coma"
"What is the treatment of West nile virus? Supportive"
"What type of virus is HCV? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Hepatitis C virus is most commonly transmitted through blood"
"Hepatitis C virus can be transmitted through needle sticking or sharing"
"Which hepatitis virus shows antigenic variability of envelope proteins? HCV"
"Hepatitis C virus displays antigenic variability of its envelope proteins"
"What is the mechanism for antigenic variation of envelope proteins in HCV? Lack of 3'-5' exonuclease -> lack of proofreading -> antigenic variation"
"Which hepatitis virus lacks 3'-5' exonuclease activity? HCV"
"Why does HCV have a lack of proofreading ability and thus displays antigenic variation? lack of 3'-5' exonuclease"
"Hepatitis C infections become chronic in 60-80% of cases"
"Hepatitis C virus can result in hepatocellular carcinoma"
"Does HCV increase the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma? Yes"
"Hepatitis C RNA is found in the serum for < 6 months in the acute stage"
"The acute phase of HCV infection is marked by a rise and fall of ALT::liver enzyme in 6 months"
"Hepatitis C RNA is found in the serum for > 6 months in the chronic stage"
"Which hepatitis virus is associated with cryoglobulins? HCV"
"HCV is associated with cryoglobulins, which are IgM immunoglobulins that precipitate out of the blood at cool temperatures"
"Older treatments that can be used for Hep C Virus include IFN-alpha and Ribavirin"
"HCV can be treated with protease::enzyme and polymerase::enzyme inhibitors"
"Acyclovir, famciclovir and valacyclovir are all guanosine analogs"
"Acyclovir, famciclovir, and valacyclovir are used to treat active::active or latent VZV and HSV infections"
"Acyclovir is converted to acyclovir monophosphate by thymidine kinase in virus-infected cells"
"Acyclovir must be phosphorylated three times::specific by intracellular enzymes to reach its activated nucleotide form"
"Acyclovir monophosphate is eventually converted to acyclovir triphosphate by cellular kinases"
"Acyclovir triphosphate incorporates into replicating viral DNA, inhibiting DNA-dependent DNA polymerase"
"What is the rate-limiting step of Acyclovir activation? Thymidine kinase phosphorylation to acyclovir monophosphate"
"Virus-encoded thymidine-kinase phosphorylation is the rate determining activation step of Acyclovir"
"Lack of thymidine kinase to phosphorylate acyclovir explains why the drug is not effective in CMV and EBV"
"Absence of thymidine kinase confers resistance to acyclovir in HSV"
"Which viral DNA-polymerase inhibitors do not require thymidine kinase to become active? Cidofovir, Foscarnet"
"What is the treatment of choice for multiple yearly episodes of HSV recurrence? Once daily oral valacyclovir"
"Which acyclovir prodrug has improved oral bioavailability? Valacyclovir"
"What is the treatment of serious HSV and VZV infections? IV acyclovir"
"What is the treatment of neonatal HSV infection? IV acyclovir"
"What is the treatment of HSV encephalitis? IV acyclovir"
"What two drugs are the preferred treatment of VZV? Famciclovir; Valacyclovir"
"During active Shingles infection (herpes zoster), valacyclovir and famciclovir are most effective if given within 3 days of symptom onset"
"Prophylaxis of HSV with acyclovir is important in immunocompromised patients"
"Pregnant patients with recurrent genital herpes should receive prophylactic acyclovir"
"Acyclovir can cause interstitial nephritis and crystalline nephropathy (renal side effects)"
"Renal complications of acyclovir can be avoided with adequate hydration"
"Uncommon side-effects of acyclovir include delirium, confusion, vertigo, and hallucinations"
"Ganciclovir and Valganciclovir are guanosine analogs"
"Ganciclovir must be phosphorylated three times::specific by intracellular enzymes to reach its activated nucleotide form"
"Ganciclovir is converted to ganciclovir monophosphate by virus-encoded kinases via the UL-97 gene"
"Ganciclovir monophosphate is eventually converted to ganciclovir triphosphate by cellular kinases"
"Valganciclovir is the prodrug form of Ganciclovir that has better oral bioavailability"
"Ganciclovir triphosphate then incorporates into viral DNA, inhibiting viral DNA-dependent DNA polymerase"
"Ganciclovir and Valganciclovir are commonly used to treat CMV"
"Which antiviral is used during solid-organ and bone marrow transplant? Ganciclovir or Valganciclovir"
"Ganciclovir and Valganciclovir are used as prophylaxis of CMV retinitis in immunocompromised patients"
"Leukopenia (neutropenia), anemia and thrombocytopenia are hematological complications of Ganciclovir"
"Ganciclovir and Valganciclovir are associated with bone marrow suppression"
"The myelosuppression of Ganciclovir may be additive in patients receiving Zidovudine::NRTI therapy"
"CMV can gain resistance to ganciclovir via mutations in the UL-97 gene or its DNA polymerase"
"What drugs do not require phosphorylation via CMV viral kinase? Foscarnet; Cidofovir"
"What drug is a pyrophosphate analog that directly inhibits viral DNA polymerase? Foscarnet"
"Foscarnet may induce renal::organ insufficiency"
"Which ion imbalances are associated with Foscarnet administration? Hypo-magnesemia, -kalemia, -calcemia"
"Which antiviral can cause renal insufficiency and decreased serum Ca2+, Mg2+ and K+? Foscarnet"
"Which antiviral can cause seizures due to electrolyte disturbances? Foscarnet"
"Foscarnet can cause seizures due to electrolyte disturbances"
"Which two antiviral drugs directly inhibit DNA polymerase? Foscarnet and Cidofovir"
"Resistance to Cidofovir and Foscarnet occurs with mutations to viral DNA polymerase"
"Cidofovir is an antiviral drug that is nephro-toxic"
"What is administered with Cidofovir to reduce its nephrotoxicity? IV saline; Probenecid::2"
"What drug blocks tubular secretion of Cidofovir? Probenecid"
"Probenecid increases the plasma concentration of drugs (penicillin, methotrexate, NSAIDs, etc.)"
"Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) consists of a minimum of 3 drugs to prevent resistance"
"HAART therapy consists of 2 NRTIs plus 1 of either a(n) NNRTI, protease inhibitor, or integrase inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is abacavir (ABC)? NRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is didanosine (ddl)? NRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is emtricitabine (FTC)? NRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is lamivudine (3TC)? NRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is stavudine (d4T)? NRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is tenofovir (TDF)? NRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is zidovudine (ZDV, formerly AZT)? NRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is Maraviroc? Fusion inhibitor (inhibitor at attachment)::class (subclass)"
"Which type of HAART drug is Enfuvirtide? Fusion inhibitor (inhibitor at penetration)::class (subclass)"
"Which type of HAART drug is Dolutegravir? Integrase inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Elvitegravir? Integrase inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Raltegravir? Integrase inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Atazanavir? Protease inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Darunavir? Protease inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Fosamprenavir? Protease inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Indinavir? Protease inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Lopinavir? Protease inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Ritonavir? Protease inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Saquinavir? Protease inhibitor"
"Which type of HAART drug is Delavirdine? NNRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is Efavirenz? NNRTI"
"Which type of HAART drug is Nevirapine? NNRTI"
"What classes of HAART drugs directly inhibit HIV reverse transcriptase? NRTIs; NNRTIs"
"NRTIs are nucleosides or nucleotides that have an absent 3' hydroxyl group"
"NRTIs are incorporated into viral DNA, causing premature chain termination"
"NRTIs inhibit phosphodiester bond formation in a(n) 3' to 5' direction"
"Most NRTIs are nucleosides that must undergo phosphorylation in order to be active"
"NRTI’s lack a 3’ hydroxyl group, causing strand termination when binding to HIV reverse transcriptase"
"Reverse transcriptase inhibitors prevent transcription of ssRNA into dsDNA thereby inhibiting viral replication"
"NRTIs are associated with mitochondrial toxicity and lactic acidosis"
"Which HAART drugs are associated with peripheral neuropathy? NRTIs; specifically lamivudine, stavudine, and didanosine::1 class + 3 examples"
"Which NRTI is a nucleotide and not a nucleoside? Tenofovir"
"Which NRTI does not require phosphorylation to become active? Tenofovir"
"Lamivudine and tenofovir are NRTIs with activity against hepatitis B::liver pathology"
"Which NRTI is used to reduce vertical transmission of HIV? Zidovudine"
"Which NRTI is used during pregnancy and breastfeeding? Zidovudine"
"Which NRTI is associated with myelosuppression? Zidovudine"
"Zidovudine is associated with myelosuppression, which can result in anemia and granulocytopenia"
"Which NRTI is associated with anemia and granulocytopenia? Zidovudine"
"Zidovudine and Stavudine are associated with lipodystrophy::tissue pathology"
"Bone marrow suppression caused by Zidovudine can be reversed with G-CSF and erythropoietin"
"Zidovudine is used to decrease the vertical transmission of HIV"
"Which NRTI is associated with dose-dependent pancreatitis? Didanosine"
"Which allele is Abacavir hypersensitivity associated with? HLA-B 57:01"
"Abacavir and the HLA-B 57:01 allele are associated with a(n) type IV HSR (delayed-type)"
"Which NRTI is associated with a hypersensitivity reaction in patients with the HLA-B 57:01 allele? Abacavir"
"Which NRTI may cause hyperpigmentation of palms and soles? Emtricitabine"
"Do NNRTIs require phosphorylation to be activated? No"
"Which NRTI is associated with Fanconi syndrome? Tenofovir"
"Non-nucleoside RTIs (NNRTIs) directly inhibit HIV reverse transcriptase by binding to a different site from NRTIs"
"What class of HAART drugs compete with nucleotides for binding to HIV reverse transcriptase? NRTIs"
"Do NNRTIs compete with nucleotides for binding to reverse transcriptase? No"
"NNRTIs can cause liver failure, with resulting jaundice cutaneously"
"Which HAART drugs are hepatotoxic? NNRTIs; Maraviroc::2"
"Which NNRTI is associated with vivid dreams and CNS symptoms (psychosis, drowsiness, headache)? Efavirenz"
"Which NNRTIs are teratogenic? Delavirdine; Efavirenz::2"
"NNRTIs have varying effects on CYP450 and thus may have many drug interactions"
"NNRTIs are associated with Stevens-Johnson syndrome, a severe cutaneous pathology associated with the sloughing of skin"
"NNRTIs are associated with rash, that can manifest as a more severe pathology such as Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"Do protease inhibitors require phosphorylation to be activated? No"
"Do NRTIs require phosphorylation to be activated? Yes"
"Which HAART drugs prevent mature virion formation from large polypeptides? Protease inhibitors"
"Which gene is mutated in HIV protease inhibitor resistance? pol gene"
"Which viral gene in HIV codes for its Aspartate Protease? pol"
"Which viral gene in HIV codes for the surface glycoproteins gp120 and gp41? env"
"Which viral gene in HIV codes for its Integrase? pol"
"Which viral gene in HIV codes for the p24 capsid protein? gag"
"Which viral gene in HIV codes for the p17 matrix protein? gag"
"Which viral gene in HIV codes for its Reverse Transcriptase? pol"
"HIV reverse transcriptase is a(n) RNA-dependent DNA polymerase that synthesizes dsDNA from ssRNA"
"Which HAART drugs can result in hyperglycemia due to insulin resistance? Protease inhibitors"
"Protease inhibitors can result in hyperglycemia due to insulin resistance"
"Which HAART drugs can result in hyperlipidemia? Protease inhibitors"
"What side effect presents with increased central adiposity with skinny legs? Lipodystrophy"
"Which HAART drug class commonly causes lipodystrophy? Protease inhibitors"
"Protease inhibitors can cause hyperlipidemia with lipodystrophy (increased central adiposity)"
"Which HIV protease inhibitor can result in nephrolithiasis? Indinavir"
"Adequate hydration helps prevent nephrolithiasis with Indinavir use (protease inhibitor)"
"HIV protease inhibitors inhibit cytochrome P-450"
"Which HIV protease inhibitor displays the most potent inhibition of CYP450? Ritonavir"
"Rifampin is a CYP450 activator and thus is contraindicated in HIV due to it decreasing HIV protease inhibitor serum concentrations"
"What drug is used instead of Rifampin in patients on HIV protease inhibitors? Rifabutin"
"HIV infects CD4+ helper T-cells, macrophages, and dendritic cells"
"Which envelope protein on HIV functions to allow attachment to host CD4+ T cells? gp120; the docking glycoprotein"
"Which envelope protein on HIV binds the CD4 molecule and a chemokine receptor (CXCR4 or CCR5)? gp120"
"Which HAART drug binds to CCR5? Maraviroc"
"Maraviroc inhibits gp120 of HIV binding to the chemokine receptor CCR5 (macrophages)"
"Which envelope protein on HIV functions to allow HIV fusion and entry into host cells? gp41"
"Which HAART drug binds to gp41? Enfuvirtide"
"Enfuvirtide binds gp41 of HIV inhibiting viral cell fusion with host cells"
"HIV env encoded gp120 and gp41 are first sent to the endoplasmic reticulum of the cell for processing"
"HIV RNA is transcribed to dsDNA by HIV reverse transcriptase"
"What classes of drugs inhibit HIV RNA to dsDNA formation? NRTIs and NNRTIs"
"Which enzyme allows for HIV dsDNA to integrate with host cell DNA? Integrase"
"What class of drugs inhibits HIV DNA integration into host cell genomes? Integrase inhibitors"
"Which enzyme is responsible for mature HIV virion formation from a large polypeptide? Aspartate protease"
"What class of HAART drugs inhibit HIV mRNA formation? Integrase inhibitors"
"Integrase inhibitors will inhibit HIV dsDNA integration into the host cell genome, preventing mRNA production"
"Which HAART drugs can result in rhabdomyolysis? Integrase inhibitors"
"Integrase inhibitors can result in rhabdomyolysis, which will appear with elevated creatine kinase levels"
"Persistent Truncus Arteriosus is due to failure of neural crest cells to drive formation of the aorticopulmonary septum"
"Which congenital cardiovascular defects are associated with 22q11 syndrome? Truncus arteriosus & Tetralogy of Fallot::2"
"What is the preferred initial management for symptomatic patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy? β-blockers (first-line) Non-dihydropyridine Ca+2 channel blockers (second-line)"
"What are the two starting substrates of folate synthesis (prokaryotes)? PABA and pteridine"
"PABA and Pteridine are combined by dihydropteroate synthase to form dihydropteroic acid (prokaryotic folate synthesis)"
"Dihydropteroic acid is converted to dihydrofolic acid (prokaryotic folate synthesis)"
"Dihydrofolate is converted to tetrahydrofolate via dihydrofolate reductase"
"What is the brand-name for TMP-SMX (trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole)? Bactrim"
"Sulfamethoxazole (SMX) is a(n) PABA analog, thus inhibiting the enzyme dihydropteroate synthase"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by trimethoprim (TMP)? Dihydrofolate reductase (prokaryotic)"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by sulfamethoxazole (SMX)? Dihydropteroate synthase (prokaryotic)"
"What is the first-line treatment of uncomplicated UTIs? TMP-SMX"
"TMP-SMX can be used to treat acute prostatitis in men"
"TMP-SMX have activity against gram negative GI and urinary tract bacteria"
"Sulfamethoxazole has activity against gram positives, even the highly resistant MRSA"
"Sulfonamides (e.g. sulfamethoxazole) have activity against the gram positive branching, filamentous rod Nocardia"
"Which antibiotics are used for prophylaxis and treatment of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia? Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX)"
"Trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) are used for prophylaxis and treatment of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia"
"Pneumocystitis jirovecii prophylaxis in HIV patients should be started at CD4 counts < 200 with TMP-SMX"
"Toxoplasmosis prophylaxis in HIV patients should be started at CD4 counts < 100 with TMP-SMX"
"Toxoplasmosis and Pneumocystitis jirovecii are treated prophylactically in HIV patients with Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX)"
"What drugs should be used to treat Toxoplasmosis? Pyrimethamine/sulfadiazine"
"Hematological complications of Trimethoprim (TMP) use include pancytopenia (granulocytopenia, leukopenia) and megaloblastic anemia"
"TMP-SMX are teratogenic and should be avoided due to inhibition of folate metabolism"
"TMP-SMX are contraindicated in the 1st trimester (pregnancy), due to their effects on folate metabolism"
"Hypersensitivity reactions are common with Sulfa drug use; result in fever, hypotension, urticaria and rash"
"Sulfa drugs are contraindicated in G6PD deficiency, as they can can cause hemolytic anemia"
"Sulfa drugs are associated with the rare cutaneous skin complication Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"What renal acid-base disturbance can be caused by TMP-SMX? Type IV RTA (hyperkalemic)"
"What nephrotoxicity is caused by Sulfonamides? Acute interstitial nephritis"
"TMP-SMX (sulfonamides) can result in photosensitivity, a common cutaneous skin complication"
"How is Warfarin transported in the blood? Bound to albumin"
"What class of antimicrobials displace unconjugated bilirubin from serum albumin in the blood? Sulfonamides"
"Sulfonamides displace unconjugated bilirubin from albumin; can precipitate kernicterus in neonates"
"What class of drugs can displace warfarin (and other drugs) from serum albumin? Sulfonamides"
"Sulfonamides increase the risk of bleeding when taken along with Warfarin"
"Sulfonamides inhibit cytochrome P450"
"What antimicrobial is similar to sulfonamides, inhibiting dihydropteroate synthase? Dapsone"
"What drugs have the suffix -oxacin? Fluoroquinolones"
"Fluoroquinolones are indicated mostly for gram negative infections"
"Which two enzymes are inhibited by fluoroquinolones? DNA topoisomerase II (Prokaryotic DNA gyrase); DNA topoisomerase IV"
"What is the first-line treatment of complicated UTIs? Fluoroquinolones"
"What drugs are used in the empiric treatment of pyelonephritis? Fluoroquinolones"
"Fluoroquinolones can be used to treat acute prostatitis in men"
"Which two drugs are used in the treatment of acute prostatitis in males? TMP-SMX; Fluoroquinolones"
"Fluoroquinolones can be used to treat gram negative gastrointestinal and urinary tract infections"
"What drugs are used to treat Salmonella gastroenteritis? Fluoroquinolones"
"What drugs are used to treat Salmonella osteomyelitis? Fluoroquinolones"
"Sickle cell anemia patients are at an increased risk of Salmonella typhi osteomyelitis"
"What is the first-line treatment of gram-positive Bacillus anthracis? Fluoroquinolones"
"The fluoroquinolones levofloxacin and moxifloxacin can be used to treat Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus spp. (community-acquired pneumonia)"
"The fluoroquinolones levofloxacin and moxifloxacin can be used to treat Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila (atypical pneumonia)"
"Fluoroquinolones can prolong the QT interval, predisposing to Torsades de pointes"
"What are the most common adverse effects of Fluoroquinolones? GI upset (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea)"
"Which antibiotics can result in tendonitis, tendon rupture, and cartilage damage? Fluoroquinolones"
"Fluoroquinolone risk of tendon and cartilage damage is increased with concurrent corticosteroid (e.g. prednisone) use"
"Fluoroquinolones are teratogenic due to them causing cartilage damage to the fetus"
"Fluoroquinolones are contraindicated in children < 18* years old due to damage to growing cartilage"
"Fluoroquinolones are nucleic acid synthesis inhibitors"
"Clonality can be determined via G6PD isoforms in females"
"The G6PD isoform genes are located on the X-chromosome"
"X chromosome inactivation (lyonization) can result in differential expression of G6PD isoforms"
"The ratio of G6PD isoforms in hyperplasia is still 1:1"
"The ratio of G6PD isoforms in neoplasia is elevated"
"Is neoplasia reversible? No (irreversible)"
"Each B-cell expresses a light chain that is either a(n) kappa or lambda isoform"
"The typical ratio of kappa to lambda immunoglobulin light chain phenotypes is 3:1"
"An infection with a proliferation of B-cell kappa and lambda light chain phenotypes would cause the 3:1 ratio to stay the same::change or stay the same"
"A lymphoma with a proliferation of B-cell kappa and lambda light chain phenotypes would cause the 3:1 ratio to change::change or stay the same"
"An increase in lymph node size due to infection is known as reactive hyperplasia"
"Neoplasia can either be benign or malignant (malignancy)"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant neoplastic tumors remain localized and do not metastasize"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant neoplastic tumors invade locally and have potential to metastasize"
"Can you have a benign proliferation of lymphocytes? No (always malignant)"
"Cancer is the 2nd leading cause of death in both adults and children"
"Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the 1st leading cause of death in adults"
"Cerebrovascular disease is the 3rd leading cause of death in adults"
"Accidents are the 1st leading cause of death in children"
"Congenital defects are the 3rd leading cause of death in children"
"Breast/prostate cancer is the 1st most common cancer by incidence"
"Lung cancer is the 2nd most common cancer by incidence"
"Colorectal cancer is the 3rd most common cancer by incidence and mortality"
"Lung cancer is the 1st most common cancer by mortality"
"Breast/prostate cancer is the 2nd most common cancer by mortality"
"What is the best treatment of cancer? Early detection"
"How many cellular divisions occur before the earliest clinical symptoms of cancer arise? About 30"
"Agents that damage DNA are known as carcinogens"
"Alcohol is associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx and upper esophagus"
"Arsenic is associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the skin"
"Arsenic is associated with angiosarcoma::cancer of the liver"
"Arsenic is commonly found in cigarette smoke, hence its association with lung cancer"
"Cigarette smoke contains the carcinogens arsenic, naphthylamine and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons"
"What is the key risk factor for carcinoma of urothelium (epithelium of bladder, kidney)? Cigarette smoke"
"Which type of stomach carcinoma are nitrosamines related to? Intestinal type of Stomach Carcinoma"
"Transitional cell (urothelial) carcinoma of the bladder can arise from naphthylamine, a derivative of cigarette smoke"
"Chromium exposure is associated with lung carcinoma"
"Beryllium exposure is associated with lung carcinoma"
"Silica exposure is associated with lung carcinoma"
"EBV can result in nasopharyngeal carcinoma, especially in Asian and African males"
"EBV is associated with CNS lymphoma, especially in AIDS patients"
"EBV is associated with Burkitt lymphoma, the endemic/african form"
"Viruses such as EBV, HHV-8, HBV/HCV, etc are said to be oncogenic viruses due to them causing cancer"
"Ionizing radiation is associated with acute myelocytic leukemia"
"Ionizing radiation is associated with chronic myelocytic leukemia"
"Ionizing radiation is associated with papillary carcinoma of the thyroid"
"Ionizing radiation results in the formation of double-stranded breaks in DNA and hydroxyl free radicals which damage DNA"
"Xeroderma pigmentosum results from lack of excision endonuclease activity to remove pyrimidine dimers"
"Carcinoma implies the cancer is of epithelial origin"
"Sarcoma implies the cancer is of mesenchymal origin"
"Upregulation of telomerase prevents chromosomal shortening and cell death in tumors"
"Tumor grading defines the degree of cellular differentiation and mitotic activity"
"Tumor staging defines the degree of localization/spread"
"Low grade tumors are well differentiated"
"High grade tumors are poorly differentiated"
"A(n) hamartoma is an overgrowth of tissues in their native location"
"A(n) choristoma is the presence of normal tissue in a foreign location"
"Blood vessels can give rise to a(n) hemangioma (benign) and angiosarcoma (malignant)"
"Smooth muscle can give rise to a(n) leiomyoma (benign) and leiomyosarcoma (malignant)"
"Striated muscle can give rise to a(n) rhabdomyoma (benign) and rhabdomyosarcoma (malignant)"
"Connective tissue can give rise to a(n) fibroma (benign) and fibrosarcoma (malignant)"
"Bone can give rise to a(n) osteoma (benign) and osteosarcoma (malignant)"
"What is the most common cancer? Skin cancer"
"What is the most common skin cancer? Basal cell carcinoma"
"What is the most common cancer in children? Leukemia"
"What microbe can increase the risk of penile/anal carcinoma? High risk HPV"
"What microbe can increase the risk of gastric adenocarcinoma? H pylori"
"What microbe can increase the risk of gastric MALT lymphoma? H pylori"
"What microbe can increase the risk of cholangiocarcinoma? Liver fluke (Clonorchis sinensis)"
"What microbe can increase the risk of squamous cell bladder cancer? Schistosoma haematobium"
"Growth factor receptors are receptor tyrosine kinases::receptor class"
"What type of oncogene is PDGFB? Platelet derived growth factor"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the PDGFB oncogene? Overexpression"
"What is the associated tumor that results from overexpression of the PDGFB oncogene? Astrocytoma"
"What type of oncogene is HER2/neu (c-erbB2)? Epidermal growth factor receptor"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the HER2/neu (c-erbB2) oncogene? Amplification"
"What is the associated tumor that results from amplification of the HER2/neu (c-erbB2) oncogene? Breast carcinoma"
"What type of oncogene is RET? Neural growth factor receptor"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the RET oncogene? point mutation"
"What are the associated tumors (3) that result from point mutation of the RET oncogene? MEN2A; MEN2B; medullary thyroid carcinoma"
"What type of oncogene is KIT? Stem cell growth factor receptor"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the KIT oncogene? point mutation"
"What is the associated tumor that results from point mutation of the KIT oncogene? Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)"
"What type of oncogene is RAS? GTP-binding protein (signal transducer)"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the RAS oncogene? point mutation"
"What type of oncogene is ABL? Tyrosine kinase (signal transducer)"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the ABL oncogene? t(9;22) with BCR"
"What is the associated tumor that results from 9;22 translocation of the ABL oncogene? CML; some forms of ALL"
"Ras is associated with growth factor receptors in an inactive GDP-bound state"
"Growth factor binding to receptor results in Ras replacing GDP with GTP"
"Activated Ras (Ras-GTP complex) sends signals to the nucleus"
"Ras shuts off its nuclear signalling via GAP cleavage of GTP to GDP"
"A common Ras pathway mutation results in mutations of GAP, resulting in a lack of GTP to GDP inactivation"
"What type of oncogene is c-MYC, N-MYC, L-MYC? Transcription factor (nuclear regulator)"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the c-MYC oncogene? t(8;14) involving IgH"
"What is the associated tumor that results from translocation 8;14 of the c-MYC oncogene? Burkitt lymphoma"
"The immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) sits on chromosome 14"
"A translocation of c-MYC from chromosome 8 to 14 results in overexpression and ultimately Burkitt lymphoma"
"c-MYC is a transcription factor that sits on chromosome 8"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the N-MYC oncogene? amplification"
"What is the associated tumor that results from amplification of the N-MYC oncogene? Neuroblastoma"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the L-MYC oncogene? amplification"
"What is the associated tumor that results from amplification of the L-MYC oncogene? Small cell lung carcinoma"
"What type of oncogene is cyclin D1? Cyclin (cell cycle regulator)"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the cyclin D1 oncogene? t(11;14) involving IgH"
"What is the associated tumor that results from translocation 11;14 of the cyclin D1 oncogene? mantle cell lymphoma"
"A mantle cell lymphoma is a lymphoma of B-cells"
"Where do mantle cell lymphomas occur? Mantle zone of the lymph node"
"Cyclin D1 sits on chromosome 11"
"A translocation of cyclin D1 from chromosome 11 to 14 results in overexpression and ultimately Mantle cell lymphoma"
"What is the region next to the follicle of the lymph node? Mantle"
"What type of oncogene is CDK4? Cyclin dependent kinase (cell cycle regulator)"
"What is the mechanism that results in malignancy from the CDK4 oncogene? amplification"
"What is the associated tumor that results from amplification of the CDK4 oncogene? melanoma"
"What type of oncogene is ALK? Receptor tyrosine kinase"
"What is the associated tumor that results from gain of function of the ALK oncogene? lung adenocarcinoma"
"What type of oncogene is Bcl-2? Anti-apoptotic molecule"
"What are the associated tumors (2) that result from gain of function of the Bcl-2 oncogene? follicular and diffuse large B-cell lymphomas"
"What type of oncogene is BRAF? Serine/threonine kinase"
"Gain of functions in the BRAF oncogene result in melanoma, non-Hodgkins lymphoma, papillary thyroid carcinoma and hairy cell leukemia"
"What type of oncogene is JAK2? Tyrosine kinase"
"Gain of functions in the JAK2 oncogene result in chronic myeloproliferative disorders"
"A translocation of BCR-ABL from chromosome 9 to 22 results in overexpression and ultimately CML, some forms of ALL"
"Topoisomerase I inhibitors (-otecans) act as antineoplastics by inhibiting DNA unwinding"
"Li-Fraumeni syndrome is characterized by multiple malignancies at a(n) early age"
"Loss of copies of a tumor suppressor gene (knudson two-hit hypothesis) arise from germline (inherited) or somatic (sporadic) mutations"
"A translocation of Bcl2 from chromosome 18 to 14 results in overexpression and ultimately follicular lymphoma"
"A follicular lymphoma due to Bcl-2 overexpression results from a(n) t(14;18) mutation"
"Bcl2 is an anti-apoptotic molecule that sits on chromosome 18"
"Overexpression of Bcl2 in the follicle of a lymph node results in a lack of apoptosis of B-cells during somatic hypermutation"
"Telomerase activity is upregulated in cancer"
"Abnormal proteins produced endogenously by cells are typically expressed on MHC I"
"Tumor cells evade CD8+ T-cell immune surveillance by down-regulating MHC I expression"
"Immunodeficiency increases the risk for cancer due to lack of immune surveillence for tumors"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and colorectal cancer? APC"
"Which tumor suppressor genes are associated with breast, ovarian, fallopian and pancreatic cancer? BRCA1/BRCA2"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with melanoma and pancreatic cancer? CDKN2A"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with colon cancer? DCC"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with pancreatic cancer? DPC4/SMAD4::2"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1? MEN1"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with neurofibromatosis type 1? NF1"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with neurofibromatosis type 2? NF2"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with breast, prostate and endometrial cancer? PTEN"
"Which tumor suppressor genes are associated with tuberous sclerosis? TSC1, TSC2"
"Which tumor suppressor gene is associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease? VHL"
"Which tumor suppressor genes are associated with Wilms tumor (nephroblastoma)? WT1, WT2"
"APC is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a negative regulator of the β-catenin/WNT pathway"
"CDKN2A is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes p16 which blocks the G1 to S phase of the cell cycle"
"MEN1 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes Menin, a tumor suppressor protein"
"NF1 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes for the protein neurofibromin"
"Neurofibromin (from NF1) is a Ras GTPase activating protein (GAP)"
"NF2 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes for the protein merlin (schwannomin)"
"TSC1 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes for the protein Hamartin"
"TSC2 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes for the protein Tuberin"
"VHL is a tumor suppressor gene whose product inhibits hypoxia inducible factor 1-α (HIF-1α)"
"WT1 is a tumor suppressor gene that encodes a transcription factor which regulates urogenital development"
"Epithelial cells are attached to one another via cellular adhesion molecules (e.g. E-cadherin)"
"Downregulation of E-cadherin allows for dissociation and spread of tumor cells"
"Tumor cells can attach to laminin and destroy the basement membrane (type IV collagen) via collagenase"
"Once tumor cells enter the extracellular matrix they will attach themselves to fibronectin"
"Which type of cancer tends to metastasize via the lymphatics to regional lymph nodes? Carcinomas"
"Which type of cancer tends to metastasize hematogenously? Sarcomas (and 4 carcinomas)"
"Which four carcinomas route hematogenously? Follicular thyroid carcinoma Choriocarcinoma Renal cell carcinoma Hepatocellular carcinoma"
"Renal cell carcinoma commonly invades into the renal vein (blood vessel)"
"Hepatocellular carcinoma commonly invades into the hepatic vein::blood vessel"
"Which carcinoma has a tendency to seed body cavities (e.g. the peritoneum)? Ovarian carcinoma"
"Ovarian carcinoma is associated with \omental caking\\""
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors are slow-growing"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors are rapidly growing"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors are poorly circumscribed"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors are well circumscribed"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors are distinct and separate from the tissue from which they are growing"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors are mobile"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors are infiltrative into local tissues"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors are fixed to surrounding tissues"
"What is the only way to make an absolute diagnosis of cancer? Biopsy/excision of the tissue"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display organized growth"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display uniform nuclei"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display a low nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display minimal mitotic activity"
"Benign::Benign or Malignant tumors have no metastatic potential"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display disorganized growth"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display nuclear pleomorphism"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display nuclear hyperchromasia (dark blue)"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display a high nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio"
"Malignant::Benign or Malignant tumors usually display a high mitotic activity"
"What is the only factor used to make an absolute diagnosis of benign or malignant? Metastatic potential"
"What enzyme and cofactor catalyze conversion of dUMP to dTMP? Thymidylate synthase (methylene-THF as cofactor)"
"Conversion of dUMP to dTMP via Thymidylate synthase converts the cofactor methylene THF to DHF"
"What enzyme converts DHF back to THF? Dihydrofolate reductase"
"What enzyme is inhibited by Methotrexate? Dihydrofolate reductase (eukaryotic)"
"Administration of methotrexate results in a build-up of DHF in cells"
"Methotrexate is a(n) folate analog"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does methotrexate act at? S phase"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does 5-fluorouracil act at? S phase"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does hydroxyurea act at? S phase"
"Medical abortions can be performed with a combination of mifepristone, methotrexate and misoprostol"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug can be used in the treatment of ectopic pregnancy? Methotrexate"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug can be used in the treatment of a hydatidiform mole? Methotrexate"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug can be used in the treatment of choriocarcinoma? Methotrexate"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug can be used in the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis? Methotrexate"
"Chemotherapeutic drugs are effective against rapidly dividing cells"
"Methotrexate has a(n) immunosuppressive effect, hence why it is useful in the treatment of IBD, vasculitis, SLE, dermatomyositis, etc."
"Methotrexate is first-line in treating rheumatoid arthritis::joint pathology"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is first-line in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis? Methotrexate"
"What type of anemia results from methotrexate use? Megaloblastic (macrocytic) anemia"
"What vitamin deficiency results from methotrexate use? Folate (B9)"
"Thymidine synthesis inhibitor (MTX, 5-FU, hydroxyurea) use can result in myelo-suppression and pan-cytopenia"
"Thymidine synthesis inhibitor (MTX, 5-FU, hydroxyurea) use can result in increased risk for infection due to immunosuppression"
"Methotrexate can result in pulmonary fibrosis and ultimately restrictive lung disease"
"Pulmonary fibrosis (late stage) results in a honeycomb lung on CT"
"Methotrexate is associated with pulmonary and hepato::organ-toxicity"
"Methotrexate can result in alopecia::hair pathology"
"Methotrexate is associated with mucositis::oral pathology"
"What drug is used to reverse methotrexate toxicity? Leucovorin"
"Leucovorin is folinic acid and does not require DHF reductase for the synthesis of thymidine"
"Myelosuppression due to methotrexate is reversible with leucovorin"
"5-fluorouracil is a(n) pyrimidine analog"
"What enzyme is inhibited by 5-fluorouracil? thymidylate synthase"
"5-fluorouracil is a prodrug that is converted to its active form 5-fdUMP"
"Capecitabine is a prodrug of 5-fluorouracil with similar activity"
"Administration of 5-fluorouracil results in a build-up of dUMP in cells"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is the most widely-used treatment of colorectal cancer? 5-fluorouracil"
"5-fluorouracil can be used topically to treat basal cell carcinoma"
"5-fluorouracil can cause damage to the rapidly dividing cells of the GI tract, with resultant diarrhea"
"Cutaneous complications of 5-fluorouracil use include photosensitivity and hyperpigmentation"
"The effects of 5-fluorouracil can be potentiated with leucovorin"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug can cause hand-foot syndrome (palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia)? 5-fluorouracil"
"5-fluorouracil is known to cause hand-foot syndrome (palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia)"
"What enzyme catalyzes the conversion of UDP to dUDP? Ribonucleotide reductase"
"What enzyme is inhibited by Hydroxyurea? Ribonucleotide reductase"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug can be used in the treatment of sickle cell anemia? Hydroxyurea"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug can be used to raise fetal hemoglobin (HbF) levels? Hydroxyurea"
"Hydroxyurea is indicated for use in myeloproliferative disorders (CML, polycythemia vera, etc)"
"Administration of hydroxyurea can lead to a build-up of UDP or CTP in the cell"
"Methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil and hydroxyurea inhibit thymidine synthesis"
"IMP is the precursor to GMP and AMP in purine synthesis"
"What are the two purine nucleotide monophosphates? AMP and GMP"
"Azathioprine is converted to 6-mercaptopurine, a cytotoxic purine analog"
"What enzyme is necessary for activation of 6-mercaptopurine? HGPRT"
"Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine increase cellular levels of PRPP"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does azathioprine act at? S phase"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does 6-mercaptopurine act at? S phase"
"6-mercaptopurine is used to treat hematologic (e.g. ALL) malignancies"
"Azathioprine/6-MP have a(n) immunosuppressive effect, hence why they are useful in the treatment of graft rejection, SLE, autoimmune hemolytic anemia, etc."
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is the most widely-used treatment of a organ/graft rejection? Azathioprine/6-MP"
"Azathioprine/6-MP can be used to treat rheumatoid arthritis"
"Azathioprine/6-MP can be used to treat inflammatory bowel disease (crohn's, ulcerative colitis)"
"Azathioprine/6-MP can result in myelo-suppression (-cytopenias)"
"Azathioprine/6-MP use can result in increased risk for infection due to immunosuppression"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is associated with pancreatitis? Azathioprine/6-MP"
"Azathioprine/6-MP is associated with pancreatitis and hepato::organ-toxicity"
"What class of medications can increase risk of azathioprine/6-MP side effects? Xanthine oxidase inhibitors (allopurinol, febuxostat)"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine? PRPP amidotransferase"
"Azathioprine and 6-mercaptopurine are metabolized by xanthine oxidase::enzyme"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is used to wean patients off steroids in chronic disease? Azathioprine/6-MP"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by mycophenolate mofetil? IMP (inosine monophosphate) dehydrogenase"
"Mycophenolate mofetil will increase cellular levels of IMP"
"Mycophenolate mofetil is a powerful inhibitor of lymphocyte (B and T cell)::cell type proliferation"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is used in the treatment of lupus nephritis? Mycophenolate mofetil"
"What are common side-effects of mycophenolate mofetil use? GI upset (nausea, diarrhea, cramping)"
"Mycophenolate mofetil can result in myelo-suppression (-cytopenias)"
"Mycophenolate mofetil use can result in increased risk for infection due to immunosuppression"
"Mycophenolate mofetil use is associated with hyper-tension"
"Mycophenolate mofetil use is associated with hyper-glycemia"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is associated with invasive CMV infection? mycophenolate mofetil"
"Cladribine is a cytotoxic purine analog"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by cladribine? DNA polymerase (α and β)"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by cytarabine? DNA polymerase (α and β)"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by gemcitabine? DNA polymerase (α and β)"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does cladribine act at? S phase**"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does cytarabine act at? S phase"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does gemcitabine act at? S phase"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is used to treat hairy cell leukemia? Cladribine"
"Cladribine is a DNA polymerase inhibitor that treats hairy cell leukemia"
"Cladribine can result in myelo-suppression (-cytopenias)"
"Cytarabine can result in myelo-suppression (-cytopenias)"
"Gemcitabine can result in myelo-suppression (-cytopenias)"
"Cladribine can result in immunosuppression with increased risk for infection"
"Cytarabine can result in immunosuppression with increased risk for infection"
"Gemcitabine can result in immunosuppression with increased risk for infection"
"Cladribine use can result in nephro-toxicity and neuro-toxicity"
"Cytarabine is a cytotoxic pyrimidine analog"
"Gemcitabine is a cytotoxic pyrimidine analog"
"Which type of anemia can result from cytarabine use? Megaloblastic (macrocytic) anemia"
"Which DNA polymerase inhibiting pyrimidine analog is used to treat both hematologic malignancies and solid tumors? Gemcitabine"
"Which DNA polymerase inhibiting pyrimidine analog is used to treat hematologic malignancies only? Cytarabine"
"What class of drugs does cyclophosphamide belong to? Alkylating agents (cytotoxic chemo)"
"What class of drugs does ifosfamide belong to? Alkylating agents (cytotoxic chemo)"
"What class of drugs does busulfan belong to? Alkylating agents (cytotoxic chemo)"
"What class of drugs do nitrosoureas belong to? Alkylating agents (cytotoxic chemo)"
"What class of drugs does carmustine belong to? Nitrosoureas (alkylating agent)"
"What class of drugs does lomustine belong to? Nitrosoureas (alkylating agent)"
"What class of drugs does streptozocin belong to? Nitrosoureas (alkylating agent)"
"Alkylating agents donate a(n) alkyl group that cross-links DNA, resulting in cell apoptosis"
"Which phase of the cell cycle do alkylating agents act at? act throughout the cell cycle"
"Which chemotherapeutic drugs cross-link DNA at the guanine N-7? Cyclophosphamide; Ifosfamide::2"
"Cyclophosphamide attaches an alkyl group to the seventh nitrogen (N-7) of guanine"
"Ifosfamide attaches an alkyl group to the seventh nitrogen (N-7) of guanine"
"Which two alkylating agents must be activated by CYP450 in the liver? Cyclophosphamide, Ifosfamide"
"Cyclophosphamide is activated by CYP450 in the liver"
"Ifosfamide is activated by CYP450 in the liver"
"Which alkylating agent is used to treat both hematologic malignancies (leukemia, lymphoma) and solid tumors? Cyclophosphamide"
"Cyclophosphamide has a potent immunosuppressive effect; hence it can be used for a variety of autoimmune conditions"
"Cyclophosphamide can result in myelo-suppression with resultant -cytopenias"
"Which chemotherapeutic drugs are associated with hemorrhagic cystitis with acrolein in urine? Cyclophosphamide; Ifosfamide"
"Cyclophosphamide use can result in hemorrhagic cystitis, with the bladder toxicity arising from the metabolite acrolein"
"Ifosfamide use can result in hemorrhagic cystitis, with the bladder toxicity arising from the metabolite acrolein"
"What drug can bind acrolein and prevent hemorrhagic cystitis in cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide use? MESNA (2-mercaptoethanesulfonate)"
"The sulfhydryl group of MESNA binds acrolein, preventing hemorrhagic cystitis due to cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide use"
"Besides MESNA, N-acetylcysteine can also be used to prevent hemorrhagic cystitis from cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide use"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is known to cause bladder cancer? Cyclophosphamide"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is known to cause SIADH? Cyclophosphamide"
"Cyclophosphamide can result in SIADH, with resultant hypo-natremia"
"Cyclophosphamide is known to cause infertility in men"
"Cyclophosphamide is known to cause premature menopause in women"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is used in bone marrow ablation prior to marrow transplant? Busulfan"
"Busulfan is associated with lung::organ toxicity"
"Which alkylating agent can result in hyperpigmentation? Busulfan"
"Busulfan can result in myelo-suppression with resultant -cytopenias"
"Which of the alkylating agents are nitrogen mustards? Cyclophosphamide, Ifosfamide::2"
"Busulfan can result in pulmonary fibrosis and ultimately restrictive lung disease"
"What class of alkylating agents require bioactivation via non-enzymatic hydroxylation in the liver? Nitrosoureas"
"Which of the alkylating agents can cross the blood-brain barrier? Nitrosoureas"
"Which of the alkylating agents can be used to treat glioblastoma multiforme? Nitrosoureas"
"Nitrosoureas cross the blood-brain barrier and can thus treat brain tumors (e.g. glioblastoma multiforme)"
"Which of the alkylating agents can cause neurotoxicity (convulsions, dizziness, ataxia)? Nitrosoureas"
"Which of the alkylating agents can cause convulsions, dizziness, ataxia? Nitrosoureas"
"Which of the antimetabolite chemo drugs can cause neurotoxicity? Cladribine"
"Drugs that end in -platin (cisplatin, carboplatin, oxaliplatin) are cytotoxic platinum analogs"
"Platinum analogs (-platin suffix) bind DNA and form intra-strand and inter-strand cross-links"
"Which phase of the cell cycle do platinum analogs act at? act throughout the cell cycle"
"Platinum analogs are used to treat solid tumor malignancies"
"Platinum analogs are associated with nephro-toxicity and oto-toxicity"
"Which of the platinum analogs is most commonly associated with otoxicity? Cisplatin"
"Cisplatin targets the outer hair cells within the organ of corti, resulting in tinnitus and sensorineural hearing loss"
"Platinum analogs are known to cause peripheral neuropathy in a stocking-glove distribution"
"Which chemotherapeutic drugs are associated with nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, and peripheral neuropathy? Platinum analogs"
"Which of the platinum analogs is most commonly associated with nephrotoxicity? Cisplatin"
"Which of the platinum analogs is most commonly associated with peripheral neuropathy? Cisplatin"
"Platinum based antineoplastics can cause side effects which might make ya say NOPE - Nephrotoxicity, in particular Acute Tubular Necrosis - Ototoxicity - Peripheral Neuropathy - Emesis"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is known to cause acute tubular necrosis? Cisplatin"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is known to result in muddy brown casts found in urine? Cisplatin"
"What drug is used to prevent cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity? Amifostine"
"Amifostine scavenges free radicals produced by cisplatin in the kidney"
"Diuresis with IV saline prevents cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity"
"What must be used in all patients treated with cisplatin? IV saline"
"Which of the platinum analogs is most commonly associated with myelosuppression? Carboplatin"
"Which of the platinum analogs is most commonly associated with immunosuppression? Carboplatin"
"What class of drugs does bleomycin belong to? Antitumor antibiotics"
"What class of drugs does actinomycin D belong to? Antitumor antibiotics"
"What class of drugs does doxorubicin belong to? Anthracyclines (antitumor antibiotics)"
"What class of drugs does daunorubicin belong to? Anthracyclines (antitumor antibiotics)"
"Bleomycin has a(n) DNA binding region and a(n) iron binding region"
"Bleomycin forms free radicals which cause breaks in DNA"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does bleomycin act at? G2"
"Bleomycin treats both hematologic malignancies and solid tumors"
"Bleomycin can result in pulmonary fibrosis and ultimately restrictive lung disease"
"Bleomycin is associated with skin toxicity, such as rash and hyperpigmentation"
"Which of the antitumor antibiotics can cause hyperpigmentation of skin? Bleomycin"
"Which of the antitumor antibiotics can cause mucositis and stomatitis? Bleomycin, Doxorubicin, Daunorubicin::3"
"Which of the antitumor antibiotics can cause alopecia? All of them*"
"What suffix is associated with Anthracyclines (antitumor antibiotics)? -rubicin"
"Anthracycline antitumor antibiotics were first isolated from a species of Actinomyces bacteria"
"Anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin) form free radicals which cause breaks in DNA"
"Which chemotherapeutic drugs form free radicals and also intercalate into DNA? Anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin)"
"Which antitumor antibiotic drug solely forms free radicals, causing strand breaks in DNA? Bleomycin"
"Which antitumor antibiotic drug solely intercalates into DNA? Actinomycin D"
"Anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin) intercalate into DNA, blocking DNA and RNA synthesis"
"Doxorubicin has a(n) broad range of chemotherapeutic uses and is commonly used in clinical practice"
"Anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin) treat both hematologic malignancies and solid tumors"
"What is the main adverse effect of anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin)? Cardiotoxicity (dilated cardiomyopathy)"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy? Doxorubicin"
"Which form of anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin) decrease their risk of cardiotoxicity? liposomal form"
"What drug can prevent cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines (doxorubicin, daunorubicin)? Dexrazoxane"
"Dexrazoxane is a(n) iron chelator"
"Which of the antitumor antibiotics is associated with minimal myelosuppression? Bleomycin"
"Which of the antitumor antibiotics are associated with myelosuppression? Doxorubicin, daunorubicin, actinomycin D::3"
"Which chemotherapeutic drug is used to treat pediatric (childhood) tumors? Actinomycin D"
"Actinomycin D can be used to treat the pediatric tumors, such as Wilms tumor, Ewing sarcoma, and rhabdomyosarcoma"
"Actinomycin D intercalates into DNA, blocking DNA and RNA synthesis"
"What is the mechanism of platinum analog cytotoxicity? Cross-link DNA"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by etoposide? topoisomerase II"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by teniposide? topoisomerase II"
"Which enzymes relieve DNA supercoiling during DNA replication? topoisomerases"
"Topoisomerases relieve DNA supercoiling that occurs during DNA replication"
"Topoisomerase II induces breaks in both the positive and negative DNA strands (double stranded breaks)"
"Topoisomerase I induces breaks in single strands of DNA"
"Etoposide and teniposide inhibit the religation of double stranded breaks caused by topoisomerase II"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does etoposide act at? S and G2 phase"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does teniposide act at? S and G2 phase"
"Etoposide and teniposide have activity against both hematological and solid tumor malignancies"
"Which two solid tumors specifically can etoposide and teniposide (topoisomerase II inhibitors) be used to treat? Testicular carcinoma, Small cell lung carcinoma"
"Etoposide and teniposide can result in myelo-suppression and immuno-suppression"
"Etoposide and teniposide can result in alopecia::hair pathology"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by topotecan? topoisomerase I"
"Which enzyme is inhibited by irinotecan? topoisomerase I"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does topotecan act at? S and G2 phase"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does irinotecan act at? S and G2 phase"
"Which topoisomerase I inhibitor is indicated in ovarian and small cell lung cancer? topotecan"
"Which topoisomerase I inhibitor is indicated in colon cancer? irinotecan"
"Irinotecan and topotecan can result in myelo-suppression"
"Which of the topoisomerase inhibitors are associated with severe diarrhea? irinotecan, topotecan::2"
"Which two drugs are cytotoxic vinca alkaloids? Vincristine; Vinblastine"
"Which of the cytotoxic microtubule inhibitors bind β-tubulin and inhibit polymerization? Vincristine; Vinblastine::2"
"Which of the cytotoxic microtubule inhibitors prevent mitotic spindle formation? Vincristine; Vinblastine"
"Which phase of the cell cycle do vincristine and vinblastine act at? M phase"
"Vinblastine and Vincristine treat both hematologic and solid tumor malignancies"
"Which of the vinca alkaloids is more commonly used in Hodgkin's lymphoma? Vinblastine"
"Which of the vinca alkaloids is more commonly used in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma? Vincristine"
"Which of the vinca alkaloids is more commonly associated with neurotoxicity? Vincristine"
"Which of the vinca alkaloids is more commonly associated with areflexia and peripheral neuritis? Vincristine"
"Which of the vinca alkaloids is more commonly associated with paralytic ileus? Vincristine"
"Vincristine is associated with neurotoxicity, specifically peripheral neuropathy (glove & stocking)"
"Vincristine is associated with autonomic dysfunction, specifically paralytic ileus and constipation"
"Vincristine and vinblastine can result in alopecia::hair pathology"
"Which of the vinca alkaloids is more commonly associated with myelosuppression? Vinblastine"
"What class of drugs does paclitaxel belong to? Taxanes (cytotoxic plant alkaloids)"
"Which of the cytotoxic microtubule inhibitors bind microtubules and inhibit their depolymerization? Paclitaxel (taxanes)"
"Which of the cytotoxic microtubule inhibitors enhance mitotic spindle formation? Paclitaxel (taxanes)"
"Paclitaxel (taxanes) inhibits mitotic spindle breakdown, which occurs in anaphase* of mitosis"
"Which phase of the cell cycle does paclitaxel (taxanes) act at? M phase"
"Paclitaxel (taxanes) can result in alopecia::hair pathology"
"Paclitaxel is a cytotoxic plant alkaloid associated with peripheral neuropathy::neurotoxicity"
"Paclitaxel can result in myelo-suppression"
"Which of the cytotoxic microtubule inhibitors is associated with hypersensitivity reaction? Paclitaxel (taxanes)"
"Paclitaxel and other taxanes can be used to treat ovarian and breast carcinoma"
"What suffix is associated with small molecule kinase inhibitors? -nib"
"What suffix is associated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors? -tinib"
"Imatinib is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor"
"Which kinase inhibitor can be used to treat CML due to t(9;22) of BCR-ABL? imatinib"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia is characterized by increased levels of mature granulocytes (eosinophils, neutrophils, basophils)"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia is commonly caused by translocation of BCR-ABL from chromosome 9 to chromosome 22"
"The t(9;22) translocation (BCR-ABL) is also known as the Philadelphia chromosome"
"Which kinase inhibitor can inhibit the c-kit tyrosine kinase that causes GIST? imatinib"
"c-kit is a(n) tyrosine kinase gene that undergoes a point mutation to form GIST (gastrointestinal stromal tumor)"
"What is the main side effect of imatinib therapy? Fluid retention"
"Erlotinib works as a(n) EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor"
"Erlotinib is a first-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer"
"Which kinase inhibitor can be used to treat non-small cell lung cancer due to EGFR overexpression? Erlotinib"
"Erlotinib therapy is associated with acneiform skin rash and diarrhea (adverse effects)"
"Sunitinib and sorafenib are small molecules that inhibit the VEGFR tyrosine kinase"
"Sunitinib and sorafenib treat cancer due to VEGFR overexpression, such as renal cell carcinoma"
"Sunitinib and sorafenib are associated with cutaneous hyperkeratosis and skin rashes (adverse effects)"
"Sunitinib and sorafenib are associated with an increased risk of hemorrhage"
"Which two tyrosine kinase inhibitors are associated with hyperkeratosis and hemorrhage? Sunitinib and sorafenib"
"Vemurafenib and dabrafenib work as BRAF kinase inhibitors"
"Vemurafenib treats V600E BRAF positive malignant melanoma"
"Which kinase inhibitor can be used to treat malignant melanoma due to V600E BRAF kinase overexpression? Vemurafenib"
"The two chimeric antitumor monoclonal antibodies are rituximab and cetuximab"
"Rituximab is a chimeric, monoclonal, IgG antibody"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody targets CD20 of B-cells? Rituximab"
"Rituximab is an antitumor monoclonal antibody that targets CD20 of B-cells"
"Rituximab binds CD20 of B-cells and tags it for natural killer cells via antibody-dependent cytotoxicity"
"Rituximab can be used to treat CD20+ non-Hodgkin's (e.g. follicular) lymphoma"
"Rituximab can be used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody can treat rheumatoid arthritis? Rituximab"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody can treat vasculitides? Rituximab"
"Rituximab is associated with immunosuppression and has been known to reactivate hepatitis B"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody can cause progessive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)? Rituximab"
"Monoclonal antibodies can sometimes cause a(n) infusion reaction immediately upon IV administration"
"Which reaction to monoclonal antibodies includes skin rash, fever, dyspnea, and hypotension? Infusion reaction"
"Chimeric monoclonal antibodies can sometimes cause a(n) serum sickness within 7-10 days of administration"
"Which reaction to monoclonal antibodies includes skin rash, fever, and arthralgias? Serum sickness"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody targets epidermal growth factor receptor? Cetuximab"
"Cetuximab is an antitumor monoclonal antibody that targets EGFR"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody is used to treat SCC of the head and neck? Cetuximab"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody is used to treat stage IV colorectal carcinoma (wild-type KRAS)? Cetuximab"
"Cetuximab therapy is associated with cutaneous acneiform skin rash"
"Both rituximab and cetuximab are antitumor chimeric antibodies associated with serum sickness"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody targets vascular endothelial growth factor? bevacizumab"
"Bevacizumab is an antitumor monoclonal antibody that targets VEGF"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody inhibits angiogenesis? bevacizumab"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody treats wet macular degeneration? bevacizumab"
"Bevacizumab has an increased risk of bleeding and thrombotic events"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody has an increased risk of bleeding and thromboembolism? bevacizumab"
"A patient receiving bevacizumab that develops abdominal pain may have a(n) GI perforation"
"Alemtuzumab is an antitumor monoclonal antibody that targets CD52 of lymphocytes"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody targets CD52 of lymphocytes? Alemtuzumab"
"Alemtuzumab can be used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukemia"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody targets HER2 (c-erbB2)? trastuzumab (herceptin)"
"HER2 (c-erbB2) is a(n) epidermal growth factor receptor found in certain types of breast and gallbladder carcinoma"
"Trastuzumab (herceptin) is used to treat HER2+ breast cancer"
"Which antitumor monoclonal antibody is associated with heart failure (cardiotoxicity)? trastuzumab (herceptin)"
"Which CNS adverse effect is associated with Rituximab? progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)"
"The Warburg effect states that cancers produce energy via a high rate of glycolysis followed by lactic acid fermentation"
"Which two fungi are catalase positive? Candida and Aspergillus"
"Aspergillus is a species of opportunistic fungus that presents as septated hyphae branching at acute angles"
"Bronchoalveolar lavage of Pneumocystis jirovecii infection will reveal \disc-shaped yeast\\" or cysts containing dark oval bodies\""
"Which two classes of antifungals inhibit synthesis of ergosterol from squalene? Allylamines; Azoles"
"Allylamines (e.g. terbinafine) are a class of antifungals that inhibit the enzyme squalene epoxidase"
"Azoles are a class of antifungals that inhibit the enzyme 14α-demethylase"
"Echinocandins are a class of antifungals that inhibit the enzyme 1,3-β-glucan synthase"
"What class of antifungals inhibit synthesis of β-glucan? Echinocandins"
"Polyenes (e.g. nystatin, amphotericin B) are a class of antifungals that bind ergosterol, creating pores in the fungal cell membranes"
"Which antifungal works by disrupting mitotic spindles? Griseofulvin"
"Flucytosine (5-FC) is metabolized to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in fungal cells"
"Which antifungal is metabolized to 5-fluorouracil in fungal cells? Flucytosine"
"Which antifungal inhibits fungal DNA and RNA/protein synthesis? Flucytosine"
"Which enzyme converts Flucytosine to 5-fluorouracil? Cytosine deaminase"
"Which antifungal can result in bone marrow suppression? Flucytosine"
"What class of antifungals inhibit cell wall synthesis? Echinocandins"
"What class of antifungals result in the formation of membrane pores? Polyenes"
"Ergosterol is a component of the fungal cell membrane"
"Which two drugs bind ergosterol and form holes in the fungal cell membrane? Amphotericin B; Nystatin (polyenes)"
"Polyenes result in leakage of electrolytes from the cell"
"Which antifungal is used in severe, systemic fungal infections? Amphotericin B"
"How is amphotericin B administered? IV"
"Liposomal amphotericin B decreases its toxicity"
"Toxicity of amphotericin B::drug results from non-selective binding on mammalian cholesterol membranes"
"Acute toxicities of amphotericin B administration include fever, chills, headache and hypo-tension"
"How is amphotericin B administered for fungal CNS infections? Intrathecally"
"Intrathecal administration of amphotericin B can result in seizures and other CNS side effects"
"Which antifungal can result in thrombophlebitis? Amphotericin B"
"Which type of acid/base pathology results from amphotericin B use? Type 1 RTA"
"Electrolyte abnormalities, such as hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia, can result from amphotericin B use"
"How is Amphotericin B associated nephrotoxicity prevented? Hydration w/ IV saline"
"Amphotericin B use is associated with renal::organ toxicity"
"Amphotericin B related renal toxicity results in anemia due to decreased erythropoietin production"
"What is the standard treatment of Cryptococcal meningitis? Amphotericin B and Flucytosine"
"Which antifungal agent inhibits fungal protein synthesis? Flucytosine"
"Nystatin is active against Candida spp."
"Which polyene can treat oral and vaginal candidiasis? Nystatin"
"What is the first-line treatment for thrush (oral candidiasis)? Nystatin"
"Which two ions should be supplemented with Amphotericin B use? K+ and Mg2+"
"Which antifungal can result in arrhythmia due to hypokalemia? Amphotericin B"
"Azoles inhibit the conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol"
"What class of antifungals inhibit a cytochrome p450 enzyme (14α-demethylase)? Azoles"
"Which azole antifungal is especially prone to inhibition of human CYP450? Voriconazole"
"Adverse effects of the antifungal voriconazole includes blurry vision, changes in color vision, and flashes of light"
"Which azole is used to treat invasive aspergillosis? Voriconazole"
"Which oral azole is used in the treatment of mucocutaneous candidiasis? Fluconazole"
"Which oral azole is used in the treatment of vaginal candidiasis? Fluconazole"
"Which azoles can treat candidal esophagitis in AIDS patients? IV Fluconazole, Voriconazole"
"What drug is used in the chronic maintenance therapy of Cryptococcal meningitis? Fluconazole"
"What is the treatment of disseminated fungal infections? Amphotericin B"
"Which antifungal is used to treat local infections of dimorphic fungi? Itraconazole"
"What are the two topical azoles? Clotrimazole; Miconazole"
"What is the treatment of local, cutaneous tinea infections (azoles)? Clotrimazole; Miconazole::2"
"In addition to blocking cholesterol desmolase, the azole ketoconazole also inhibits the adrenal enzyme 17,20-desmolase"
"Which antifungal inhibits androgen and estrogen synthesis? Ketoconazole"
"Which antifungal inhibits cortisol production? Ketoconazole"
"Which antifungal is used in the treatment of Cushing syndrome? Ketoconazole"
"Ketoconazole has anti-androgenic effects and thus can cause gynecomastia in males"
"What class of antifungals prolong the QT interval? Azoles"
"Azoles can cause GI distress"
"Azoles are a class of antifungals that can cause hepato-toxicity"
"What is the treatment of vaginal candidiasis in pregnancy? Clotrimazole, Miconazole::2"
"Should azoles (e.g. ketoconazole) be avoided during pregnancy? Yes"
"Which antifungal is used to treat prostate cancer? ketoconazole"
"What is the treatment for local histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, and coccidioidomycosis infections? Itraconazole"
"Griseofulvin is used to treat superficial dermatophyte infections"
"Griseofulvin is used to treat dermatophyte-related onychomycosis (nail fungus)"
"Griseofulvin inhibits the function of microtubules, resulting in metaphase arrest of cellular division"
"Griseofulvin activates cytochrome p450"
"Which antifungal has a cross-reactivity with penicillin hypersensitivity? Griseofulvin"
"Which antifungal is contraindicated in patients with porphyrias? Griseofulvin"
"Use of Griseofulvin is contraindicated in pregnant and/or breast-feeding women"
"Griseofulvin will decrease::increase/decrease serum levels of warfarin"
"Which antifungal can cause a disulfiram-like reaction? Griseofulvin"
"Griseofulvin deposits in keratin-containing tissues"
"Terbinafine is used to treat superficial dermatophyte infections"
"Tinea capitis in children is treated with oral griseofulvin or oral terbinafine"
"Which fungistatic agent is used to treat onychomycosis? Griseofulvin"
"Which fungi-cidal agent is used to treat onychomycosis? Oral Terbinafine"
"Oral terbinafine is used to treat dermatophyte-related onychomycosis (nail fungus)"
"Which antifungal is fungistatic? Griseofulvin"
"What class of drugs results in an accumulation of squalene intracellularly? Allylamines (e.g. terbinafine)"
"What class of drugs inhibit squalene epoxidase? Allylamines (e.g. terbinafine)"
"The antifungal class allylamines can be recognized via the suffix -fine (e.g. terbinafine)"
"Which of the allylamines is associated with GI upset? Terbinafine"
"The allylamine terbinafine is associated with hepato-toxicity"
"What drug class does Caspofungin belong to? Echinocandins"
"The antifungal class echinocandins can be recognized via the suffix -fungin (e.g. caspofungin)"
"Echinocandins are antifungal agents that act at the cell wall"
"Amphotericin B or echinocandins (drug class) can be used for systemic candidal::specific infections"
"Echinocandins are administered IV for systemic candidiasis"
"What class of antifungals treat invasive aspergillosis that is refractory to voriconazole? Echinocandins"
"What class of antifungals can result in histamine-mediated hypersensitivity reactions? Echinocandins"
"Echinocandins are primarily metabolized via the liver"
"Which antifungal prevents candidiasis in patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplant? Micafungin"
"Specific indications for caspofungin include RACE: Refractory aspergillosis Azole-resistant Candida Candidemia Empiric treatment in a(n) febrile, neutropenic patient"
"Polyenes are a class of antifungals that include amphotericin B and nystatin"
"Which antifungal agent can result in hypomagnesemia and hypokalemia? Amphotericin B"
"Which antifungal can result in anemia due to decreased EPO production? Amphotericin B"
"Azoles inhibit cytochrome p450"
"Pregnant women are at risk of trans-placental transfer of toxoplasmosis"
"Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite commonly transmitted as oocysts in cat feces"
"Immunocompromised (e.g. HIV) and pregnant individuals are at risk of Toxoplasma gondii infection"
"Which protozoal complication can present with encephalitis and ring enhancing lesions on CT scan? Toxoplasmosis"
"What is used to differentiate between primary CNS lymphoma and toxoplasmosis? Brain biopsy"
"Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite commonly transmitted as cysts in undercooked meat"
"Congenital toxoplasmosis presents as chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus, and intracranial calcifications"
"Congenital toxoplasmosis presents as chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus, and intracranial calcifications"
"Congenital toxoplasmosis::protozoa presents as chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus, and intracranial calcifications"
"Which congenital infection presents as chorioretinitis, hydrocephalus, and intracranial calcifications? Congenital toxoplasmosis"
"Congenital toxoplasmosis presents with chorioretinitis, characterized by white/yellow scars on the retina"
"Congenital toxoplasmosis presents with hydrocephalus, characterized by seizures"
"What sensory loss can result from congenital toxoplasmosis? Deafness"
"What drugs are used to treat toxoplasmosis (toxoplasma gondii)? Pyrimethamine/Sulfadiazine::2"
"What drug is used to avoid marrow suppression during treatment of Toxoplasmosis? Leucovorin"
"What drug inhibits dihydrofolate reductase in protozoa? Pyrimethamine::not bacteria"
"When is prophylaxis for Toxoplasmosis initiated (CD4+)? ≤ 100 cells/mm3"
"Toxoplasmosis prophylaxis is initiated in HIV patients with a CD4 count ≤ 100 cells/mm3 and positive T. gondii IgG serology"
"What drugs are used in prophylaxis of toxoplasmosis (toxoplasma gondii)? TMP/SMX"
"Toxoplasma gondii has a sexual oocyst (gametocyte) phase and asexual bradyzoite or tachyzoite phase"
"Which protozoa cause African Sleeping Sickness? Trypanosoma brucei"
"The vector for transmission of Trypanosoma brucei is a(n) tsetse fly"
"Trypanosoma brucei has two subspecies; either T. gambiense or T. rhodesiense"
"The early stage of Trypanosoma brucei infection (sleeping sickness) includes cervical/axillary lymphadenopathy and recurrent fever"
"Trypomastigotes present on blood smear is diagnostic of Trypanosoma brucei infection"
"The late stage of Trypanosoma brucei infection (sleeping sickness) includes CNS involvement and coma"
"Recurrent fevers of Trypanosoma brucei are due to antigenic variation of surface glycoproteins"
"Motile, flagellated trypanosomes on blood smear are indicative of Trypanosoma brucei"
"What is the treatment of early (blood-borne) Trypanosoma brucei infection? Suramin"
"What is the treatment of late (CNS) Trypanosoma brucei infection? Melarsoprol"
"Acute symptoms of Chagas disease include chagoma and Romaña's sign"
"Romaña's sign is inflammation and swelling around the eyelids due to acute Chagas disease"
"Which chronic protozoal infection may result in achalasia? Chagas disease"
"Naegleria fowleri causes amoebic brain disease and is associated with freshwater sources"
"The trophozoite form of Naegleria fowleri infects the CNS by passing through the cribriform plate"
"Naegleria fowleri can result in primary amoebic meningoencephalitis"
"Naegleria fowleri infection has a(n) poor prognosis"
"First presenting signs of Naegleria fowleri protozoal infection are alterations in taste or smell with headache, stiff neck, and altered mental status"
"Which protozoa is often associated with water-sports? Naegleria fowleri"
"What is the cause of primary amoebic meningoencephalitis? Naegleria fowleri"
"Which protozoa can be found in nasal irrigation systems and contact lens solutions? Naegleria fowleri"
"How is Naegleria fowleri diagnosed? Lumbar puncture w/ amoebas present in CSF"
"What is the treatment of choice for Naegleria fowleri? Amphotericin B"
"What is the cause of granulomatous amoebic encephalitis? Acanthamoeba spp."
"Acanthamoeba spp. is associated with granulomatous amoebic encephalitis and keratitis in contact lens wearers"
"Which protozoal complication can present with megacolon and megaesophagus? Chagas disease (Trypanosoma cruzi)"
"Which protozoal complication can present with dilated cardiomyopathy? Chagas disease"
"Trypanosomes found on cardiac biopsy is indicative of Chagas disease"
"Trypanosoma cruzi burrows into the endocardium to cause dilated cardiomyopathy of Chagas disease"
"Babesia is a group of protozoa that reside in RBCs (intraerythrocytic)::cell/tissue"
"Babesiosis can cause hemolytic anemia, which results in hemoglobinuria and jaundice"
"How is Babesiosis (Babesia spp.) transmitted? Ixodes tick"
"What is a common coinfection with Babesia spp.? Borrelia burgdorferi (lyme disease)"
"Fevers in babesiosis have a(n) irregular cycle"
"Babesiosis has a worse presentation in asplenic patients, which commonly results from sickle cell disease"
"Babesiosis is diagnosed via blood smear with a characteristic 'Maltese cross' structure within cells"
"Babesiosis presents with red blood cells that contain a(n) tetrad 'Maltese cross' structure"
"What is the predominant geographic distribution of Babesia spp.? Northeast U.S."
"What is the treatment for mild-to-moderate cases of Babesiosis? Atovaquone and Azithromycin::2"
"What is the treatment for severe or resistant cases of Babesiosis? Clindamycin and Quinine::2"
"What is the host of Leishmania braziliensis? Vertebrates"
"Which protozoa causes mucocutaneous leishmaniasis? Leishmania braziliensis"
"What is the vector of Leishmania spp.? Sandfly"
"What is the infective form of Leishmania? Promastigote"
"What is the flagellated (motile) form of Leishmania? Promastigote"
"What is the non-flagellated (non-motile) form of Leishmania? Amastigote"
"What is the mature form of Leishmania? Amastigote"
"The amastigote form of Leishmania spp. is found within macrophages"
"Where does the mature form of Leishmania replicate? Macrophages of the reticuloendothelial system"
"Which protozoa causes visceral leishmaniasis? Leishmania donovani"
"Leishmania donovani presents as visceral leishmaniasis, also known as kala-azar (black fever)"
"Which strain of Leishmaniasis can present with skin hyperpigmentation? Leishmania donovani"
"Visceral leishmaniasis can present with pancytopenia (blood complication)"
"Visceral leishmaniasis can present with hepatosplenomegaly::visceral complication"
"Which form of Leishmaniasis can present with fever, pancytopenia and hepatosplenomegaly? Visceral leishmaniasis (L. donovani)"
"What is the treatment for cutaneous leishmaniasis? Sodium stibogluconate"
"What is the treatment for visceral leishmaniasis? Amphotericin B"
"Inside of macrophages, Leishmania spp. are non-flagellated::flagellated or non-flagellated"
"Outside of macrophages, Leishmania spp. are flagellated::flagellated or non-flagellated"
"Trichomonas vaginalis causes cervicitis described as a 'strawberry cervix'"
"Trichomonas vaginalis presents with itching and burning"
"Gardnerella vaginalis presents no itching or burning"
"Gardnerella vaginalis presents with a gray discharge"
"Trichomonas vaginalis presents with a(n) yellow-green::color discharge"
"Trichomonas vaginalis presents with a foul smell"
"Gardnerella vaginalis presents with a fishy smell"
"Trichomonas vaginalis presents with motile trophozoites on wet mount microscopy"
"Gardnerella vaginalis presents with clue cells on wet mount microscopy"
"Trichomonas vaginalis is a protozoal infection that occurs at a pH > 4.5"
"Which protozoa is considered an STI? Trichomonas vaginalis"
"What is the treatment of Trichomonas vaginalis? Metronidazole"
"The motile trophozoites of Trichomonas vaginalis are said to have 'corkscrew' motility"
"The motile trophozoites of Trichomonas vaginalis are said to be 'pear-shaped'"
"Diagnosis of Plasmodium spp. includes blood smear and giemsa stain"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium follow a quartan fever cycle? Plasmodium malariae"
"Fever from Plasmodium malariae occurs every 72 hrs"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium produce dormant hypnozoites in the liver? Plasmodium vivax; Plasmodium ovale"
"Hypnozoites of Plasmodium vivax and ovale are found in hepatocytes"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium follow a tertian fever cycle? Plasmodium vivax and ovale"
"Fevers from Plasmodium vivax and ovale occur every 48 hrs"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium follow an irregular fever cycle? Plasmodium falciparum"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium forms sticky knobs on RBCs that occlude blood vessels? Plasmodium falciparum"
"The sticky RBCs of Plasmodium falciparum occlude vessels of the brain, lungs, and kidneys"
"The gametocytes of Plasmodium falciparum are banana-like::shape"
"The gametocytes of Plasmodium vivax/ovale are round::shape"
"The gametocytes of Plasmodium malariae are round::shape"
"The trophozoites of Plasmodium malariae are band or rectangular"
"The trophozoites of Plasmodium vivax/ovale are large, irregular rings"
"The trophozoites of Plasmodium falciparum are small rings"
"Chloroquine is a drug that works by blocking Plasmodium heme polymerase::enzyme"
"Which antimalarials can cause hemolysis in G6PD deficiency? Primaquine, Artesunate, Dapsone, Quinidine"
"Which single drug is used prophylactically in travelers to prevent malarial infection? Mefloquine"
"What drug combination is used prophylactically in travelers to prevent malarial infection? Atovaquone and Proguanil"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium are Artemisinins used to treat? Plasmodium falciparum"
"Sickle cell disease protects against which strain(s) of Plasmodium? Plasmodium falciparum"
"Intravenous artesunate and/or quinidine is used for severe malaria infections"
"What drug used for malaria can cause cinchonism? Quinidine"
"Which antiarrhythmic can be used to treat Plasmodium falciparum malaria? Quinidine"
"The anopheles mosquitoes carry sporozoites of Plasmodium spp. in their saliva"
"Sporozoites of Plasmodium from mosquitoes travel to the human liver (hepatocytes), where they replicate and mature to trophozoites"
"Trophozoites of Plasmodium mature into schizonts, which rupture the hepatocytes and release merozoites"
"Merozoites of Plasmodium from the ruptured hepatocytes go on to infect red blood cells"
"Plasmodium merozoite infection of red blood cells can result in gametocyte::sexual form of parasite formation"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium is most severe? Plasmodium falciparum"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium infects all RBCs? Plasmodium falciparum"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium infects mature RBCs only? Plasmodium malariae"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium infects reticulocytes only? Plasmodium vivax/ovale"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium can present with Schüffner dots in RBCs? Plasmodium vivax/ovale"
"Plasmodium vivax/ovale present with multiple, brick-red dots in RBCs, known as Schüffner dots"
"Quinoline derivatives are anti-malarial drugs that typically have the suffix -quine"
"Quinolines block the detoxification of heme into hemozoin by Plasmodium spp."
"Quinolines are drugs that cause a build-up of heme intracellularly, which is toxic to Plasmodium spp."
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium is primaquine used to treat? Plasmodium vivax/ovale"
"Which antimalarial has activity against Plasmodium hypnozoites? Primaquine"
"Which strain(s) of Plasmodium is chloroquine used to treat? Plasmodium vivax/ovale; Plasmodium malariae"
"Which antimalarial can result in retinopathy (bull's eye maculopathy)? Chloroquine"
"Which antimalarial can result in pruritus (esp. in dark-skinned patients)? Chloroquine"
"Artemisinins are a class of antimalarials that bind iron, leading to generation of free radicals"
"Plasmodium spp. infect red blood cells"
"Which helminth is also known as pinworm? Enterobius vermicularis"
"Which helminth causes perianal itchiness? Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm)"
"Female pinworms (Enterobius vermicularis) lay eggs at the anus"
"What is the route of transmission of Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm)? Fecal-oral"
"Diagnosis of the helminth Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm) is made via the scotch tape test"
"Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm) is treated with pyrantel pamoate or albendazole"
"Which two hookworms are found in the southern U.S.? Ancylostoma duodenale and Necator americanus"
"Hookworm larvae penetrate the skin on soles of feet"
"Hookworms, a helminth, enter the blood through the feet, making their way to the lungs; mucociliary escalator eventually causes them to be swallowed into the GI tract"
"Which helminths can result in iron-deficiency anemia? Hookworms (Ancylostoma duodenale and Necator americanus)"
"How is the presence of hookworms (Ancylostoma duodenale, Necator americanus) diagnosed? Eggs in stool O&P, Eosinophilia"
"Hematological complications of hookworms (Ancylostoma duodenale, Necator americanus) include iron deficiency anemia and eosinophilia"
"Hookworms (Ancylostoma duodenale, Necator americanus) are treated with pyrantel pamoate or albendazole"
"Which helminth is commonly known as giant roundworm? Ascaris lumbricoides"
"What is the route of transmission of Ascaris lumbricoides (giant roundworm)? Fecal-oral"
"Ascaris lumbricoides, a helminth, enters the blood through the intestinal wall, making their way to the lungs; mucociliary escalator eventually causes them to be swallowed into the GI tract"
"Which helminth is most likely to cause respiratory symptoms? Ascaris lumbricoides (giant roundworm)"
"Ascaris lumbricoides is a helminth that can cause intestinal obstruction at the ileocecal valve"
"Ascaris lumbricoides (giant roundworm) is a helminth, treated with albendazole, that can result in biliary tree abnormalities"
"How is the presence of Ascaris lumbricoides diagnosed? Eggs in stool O&P, Eosinophilia"
"Ascaris lumbricoides is treated with albendazole"
"Strongyloides stercoralis, a helminth, enters the blood through the feet, making their way to the lungs; mucociliary escalator eventually causes them to be swallowed into the GI tract"
"Which helminth causes autoinfection via laying eggs in the intestinal wall? Strongyloides stercoralis"
"How is the presence of Strongyloides stercoralis diagnosed? Larvae in stool O&P, Eosinophilia"
"Strongyloides stercoralis is treated with albendazole or ivermectin"
"Trichinella spiralis is a helminth commonly found in undercooked meat (e.g. pork)::food"
"Which helminth can result in fever, vomiting, and periorbital edema? Trichinella spiralis"
"The larvae of Trichinella spiralis enter the blood and lay cysts in striated muscle"
"Which helminth can result in muscle inflammation and myalgia? Trichinella spiralis"
"Which hematologic complication arises from Trichinella spiralis infection? Eosinophilia"
"Trichinella spiralis is treated with albendazole"
"Infection of the helminth Dracunculus medinensis occurs via drinking of water contaminated with larvae in copepods"
"After maturation in the abdomen, the helminth Dracunculus medinensis migrates to the skin, inducing a painful ulcer"
"Which helminth has a mature form that emerges from painful skin ulcers? Dracunculus medinensis"
"Which helminth is treated by wrapping the emerging worm around a stick? Dracunculus medinensis"
"Which hematologic complication arises from Dracunculus medinensis infection? Eosinophilia"
"Which helminth is transmitted by the female black fly? Onchocerca volvulus"
"Which helminth can result in hyper and hypo-pigmented cutaneous spots? Onchocerca volvulus"
"Microfilariae of the helminth Onchocerca volvulus can enter the eye and cause blindness"
"Which hematologic complication arises from Onchocerca volvulus infection? Eosinophilia"
"Microfilariae seen in skin biopsy under microscope is diagnostic of Onchocerca volvulus"
"Onchocerca volvulus is treated with ivermectin"
"Wuchereria bancrofti is a helminth that can cause elephantiasis due to longstanding lymphedema"
"Which helminth can present with microfilariae in the lungs causing cough? Wuchereria bancrofti"
"How is Wuchereria bancrofti transmitted? Mosquitos"
"How is Wuchereria bancrofti diagnosed? Blood smear"
"Which hematologic complication arises from Wuchereria bancrofti infection? Eosinophilia"
"Wuchereria bancrofti is treated with diethylcarbamazine"
"Toxocara canis is a helminth transmitted via food contaminated with dog or cat feces"
"Which helminth causes visceral and ocular larva migrans? Toxocara canis"
"Larvae of the helminth Toxocara canis can enter the eye and cause blindness"
"Which hematologic complication arises from Toxocara canis infection? Eosinophilia"
"Toxocara canis is treated with albendazole"
"Which helminth can cause transient angioedema? Loa loa"
"Subcutaneous, 'Calabar' swellings are diagnostic of the helminth Loa loa"
"Loa loa is a helminth known as 'African eye worm', as the adult form can migrate across the conjunctiva"
"How is Loa loa diagnosed? Blood smear"
"How is Loa loa transmitted? Deer flies"
"Which hematologic complication arises from Loa loa infection? Eosinophilia"
"Loa loa is treated with diethylcarbamazine or albendazole"
"Tapeworms are officially known as cestodes"
"Flukes are officially known as trematodes"
"Taenia solium is a pig (pork) tapeworm"
"Taenia saginata is a cattle (beef) tapeworm"
"Taenia solium has a circle of hooklets on its scolex (head)"
"Taenia saginata has no circle of hooklets on its scolex (head)"
"Which helminth can present with neurocysticercosis? Taenia solium"
"Ingestion of Taenia solium eggs in contaminated water/food can result in neurocysticercosis"
"Neurocysticercosis due to Taenia solium eggs can present with seizures and hydrocephalus"
"Neurocysticercosis due to the helminth Taenia solium has a 'swiss cheese' appearance to the brain on CT/MRI"
"Ingestion of Taenia cysts::cyst/trophozoite in contaminated water/food can result in Taeniasis (intestinal infection)"
"What is the treatment for intestinal Taenia solium infection? Praziquantel"
"What is the treatment for neurocysticercosis Taenia solium infection? Albendazole + corticosteroids"
"What is the presentation of intestinal Taenia solium and saginata infection? Generally asymptomatic"
"What is the treatment for Taenia saginata infection? Praziquantel"
"Diphyllobothrium latum is a fish tapeworm"
"Which helminth can result in cobalamin deficiency? Diphyllobothrium latum"
"Diphyllobothrium latum is a helminth that can result in megaloblastic anemia due to B12 (cobalamin) deficiency"
"Diphyllobothrium latum infection occurs with consumption of larvae in undercooked freshwater fish::specific"
"Diphyllobothrium latum is the longest tapeworm"
"Diagnosis of tapeworms occurs with identification of proglottids and eggs in stool"
"Diphyllobothrium latum is treated with praziquantel or niclosamide"
"Echinococcus granulosus is a dog (and sheep) tapeworm"
"Echinococcus granulosus is transmitted via dog feces"
"Echinococcus granulosus is a helminth that can form 'hydatid cysts' in the liver, lungs or brain"
"Imaging of the helminth Echinococcus granulosus reveals hydatid cysts with 'eggshell' calcifications, most commonly in the liver"
"Rupture of Echinococcus granulosus cysts results in anaphylaxis and spread of infection"
"Which hematologic complication arises from Echinococcus granulosus infection? Eosinophilia"
"Entamoeba histolytica::Entamoeba histolytica or Echinococcus presents as a mass in the liver that is treated pharmacologically"
"Echinococcus::Entamoeba histolytica or Echinococcus presents as a mass in the liver that is treated surgically"
"Echinococcus granulosus can be treated with albendazole, but the more common method is surgery"
"Echinococcus granulosus cysts are injected with ethanol during surgery to kill larvae and prevent spread/anaphylaxis"
"What demographic is at risk of Schistosoma spp. infection? Swimmers"
"What is the intermediate host of Schistosoma spp.? Snails"
"Schistosoma spp. mature in the liver and then disseminate"
"Which species of helminths migrate against portal blood flow? Schistosoma spp."
"Schistosoma mansoni has a(n) large lateral spine"
"Schistosoma japonicum has a(n) small terminal spine"
"Schistosoma haematobium has a(n) large terminal spine"
"Which species of helminths cause an acute swimmer's itch? Schistosoma spp."
"Which helminths can result in portal hypertension and cirrhosis? Schistosoma mansoni and japonicum"
"Schistosoma mansoni and japonicum can result in jaundice due to cirrhosis"
"Schistosoma mansoni and japonicum tend to inhabit the mesenteric veins"
"Schistosoma haematobium can result in hematuria"
"Schistosoma haematobium is a helminth associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder"
"What is the treatment for Schistosoma spp.? Praziquantel"
"What is the intermediate host of Clonorchis sinensis? Snails"
"Clonorchis sinensis tends to inhabit the liver and biliary tree"
"Schistosoma spp. is a(n) blood fluke"
"Clonorchis sinensis is a(n) liver fluke"
"Which trematode (fluke) is ingested in undercooked fish? Clonorchis sinensis (liver fluke)"
"Clonorchis sinensis is a helminth that causes biliary tract inflammation, resulting in pigmented gallstones and ultimately cholangiocarcinoma"
"Which trematode (fluke) presents with RUQ pain? Clonorchis sinensis (liver fluke)"
"Which helminth increases the risk of cholangiocarcinoma? Clonorchis sinensis (liver fluke)"
"Clonorchis sinensis (liver fluke) is a helminth that presents with 'operculated' eggs on stool O&P"
"What is the treatment for Clonorchis sinensis? Praziquantel"
"Paragonimus westermani is a(n) lung fluke"
"Paragonimus westermani is a helminth that can cause chronic cough with bloody sputum"
"What is the intermediate host of Paragonimus westermani? Snails"
"Which helminth is associated with consumption of undercooked crab meat infected with larvae? Paragonimus westermani (lung fluke)"
"Paragonimus westermani (lung fluke) is a helminth that presents with 'operculated' eggs on stool O&P"
"What is the treatment for Paragonimus westermani? Praziquantel"
"Ascaris lumbricoides is a helminth that can result in Loeffler's syndrome (eosinophilic pneumonitis)"
"Which antibiotic is first-line in the treatment of intra-abdominal anaerobic infections? Metronidazole"
"Metronidazole is a(n) antimicrobial that contains a(n) nitro group allowing it to act as a(n) electron sink"
"Metronidazole is an antimicrobial that acts as an electron sink, creating free radicals which disrupt DNA synthesis"
"Metronidazole is administered to both patient and partner of Trichomonas vaginalis infection"
"Metronidazole is an antimicrobial that can cause a(n) disulfiram-like reaction with concurrent alcohol use"
"Which antimicrobial can result in a metallic taste in mouth? Metronidazole"
"What is the stain and shape of Actinomyces? Gram positive, filamentous rod"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Actinomyces? Obligate anaerobe"
"Actinomyces is normal flora of the oral cavity, GI and GU tracts"
"Which bacteria is commonly associated with jaw trauma? Actinomyces"
"Cervicofacial mycetoma is a complication of Actinomyces abscess formation and presents with a characteristic 'lumpy jaw'"
"Actinomyces is a bacteria that causes oral/facial abscesses that drain through the sinus tracts"
"Which bacteria is associated with yellow sulfur granules? Actinomyces"
"What is the treatment for Actinomyces infection? Penicillin G"
"Actinomyces is commonly transmitted in the setting of dental procedures"
"Actinomyces infection of the GU tract in women is associated with intrauterine devices (IUDs)"
"Schistosoma mansoni and japonicum can cause portal hypertension"
"Which cancer is associated with Clonorchis sinensis infection? Cholangiocarcinoma"
"Ebstein anomaly manifests as early cyanosis and dilation of the right atrium in an infant"
"The three major causes of nosocomial infections are Klebsiella, Enterobacter, and Serratia"
"Klebsiella, Enterobacter, and Serratia commonly cause nosocomial pneumonia and UTIs"
"Klebsiella, enterobacter, and serratia commonly exhibit multi-drug resistance"
"Klebsiella, Enterobacter, and Serratia are all lactose fermenters"
"Klebsiella, Enterobacter, and Serratia stain pink on MacConkey agar"
"Is Enterobacter motile? Yes"
"Is Serratia motile? Yes"
"Is Klebsiella motile? No"
"Serratia produces a(n) red pigment"
"Klebsiella can be remembered by its \three A's\\"; alcoholics"
"Does Klebsiella have a capsule? Yes"
"Patients with Klebsiella pneumoniae will cough up a(n) pink, currant jelly sputum"
"Which of the common gram-negative nosocomial infections (Klebsiella, Serratia, Enterobacter) is urease-positive? Klebsiella"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Klebsiella? Facultative anaerobe"
"Klebsiella can also cause pyogenic liver::organ and lung::organ abscesses"
"Klebsiella pneumonia is a bacteria that can present with right upper lobe cavitation, which is commonly confused with secondary TB"
"Is Salmonella spp. motile? Yes"
"Salmonella spp. produces hydrogen sulfide (H2S), which appears as black colonies on Hektoen enteric agar"
"Does Salmonella have a capsule? Yes"
"Does Enterobacter have a capsule? No"
"Does Serratia have a capsule? No"
"Salmonella spp. is acid-labile::stable or labile"
"The reservoir for Salmonella enteritidis is chicken"
"Chronic carriers of Salmonella typhi carry the infection in their gallbladder::organ"
"Which strain of Salmonella causes typhoid fever? Salmonella typhi"
"Salmonella typhi can present with abdominal pain with 'rose spots' cutaneously"
"Salmonella typhi is the most common cause of osteomyelitis in patients with sickle cell disease"
"Salmonella typhi can cause constipation or 'pea soup' diarrhea"
"Which strain of Salmonella is treated with fluoroquinolones? Salmonella typhi"
"Salmonella typhi has a(n) live, attenuated vaccine"
"Salmonella enteritidis causes inflammatory diarrhea"
"A type III secretion system detects eukaryotic cells and secretes a protein to help with infectivity"
"Salmonella spp. contains a(n) type III secretion system that acts as a virulence factor"
"Salmonella spp. is facultative intracellular within macrophages"
"Which strain of Salmonella can be acquired from turtles and other reptiles? Salmonella enteritidis"
"Humans are the only reservoir for Salmonella typhi"
"Salmonella paratyphi causes paratyphoid fever"
"The required infective dose of Salmonella is large::large or small"
"Shigella forms green colonies on Hektoen agar"
"Which agar detects the production of hydrogen sulfide (H2S)? Hektoen agar"
"Is Shigella motile? No"
"Shigella is acid-stable::stable or labile"
"The required infective dose of Shigella is small::large or small"
"Shigella spp. uses host cell actin filaments to spread from cell to cell"
"Shigella spp. is a bacteria that invades via M cells of the Peyer's patches"
"Shigella spp. is facultative intracellular within M cells"
"Shigella causes bloody::watery or bloody diarrhea"
"Shigella causes a(n) inflammatory diarrhea, with the presence of blood and leukocytes"
"Shigella dysenteriae can produce a shiga toxin that leads to hemolytic-uremic syndrome"
"Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) from Shigella dysenteriae results when shiga toxin damages the glomerulus, activating platelets"
"Damage to the glomerulus in Shigella-induced HUS results in platelet aggregation, decreasing the platelet count when microthombi form"
"The microthrombi of hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) cause red blood cell lysis"
"What demographic is hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) most common in? Children < 10 y.o.::age"
"Shigella dysenteriae produces Shiga toxin"
"Shiga toxin binds to the 60s subunit of ribosomes, inhibiting protein synthesis"
"Does Shigella produce H2S? No"
"Does Salmonella produce H2S? Yes"
"Shigella secretes effector proteins via a(n) type III secretion system"
"Does E. coli ferment lactose? Yes"
"Does Shigella ferment lactose? No"
"Does Salmonella ferment lactose? No"
"E. coli will stain pink on MacConkey agar"
"Does Shigella have a capsule? no"
"Does E. coli have a capsule? Yes"
"The E. coli K antigen is present on its capsule"
"The E. coli H antigen is present on its flagella"
"The E. coli O antigen is present on its lipopolysaccharide (LPS)"
"E. coli (and other lactose fermenters) will stain metallic green on Eosin-methylene blue (EMB) agar"
"The fimbriae of E. coli allow the bug to cause urinary tract infections"
"What microorganism is the most common cause of UTIs? E. coli"
"What is the most common cause of gram negative sepsis? E. coli"
"What is the 2nd most common cause of neonatal meningitis? E. coli"
"E. coli causes neonatal meningitis only if it is positive for K (capsular) antigen"
"Enteropathogenic E. coli produces no toxin and adheres to intestinal epithelium"
"Enteropathogenic E. coli destroys intestinal microvilli resulting in malabsorption"
"Enteropathogenic E. coli usually presents as diarrhea in children"
"Enterohemorrhagic E. coli is transmitted by eating undercooked beef"
"Which form of E. coli presents with dysentery (bloody, mucousy diarrhea)? Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC)"
"Which form of E. coli does not ferment sorbitol? Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC)"
"Which bacteria produces Shiga-like toxin (verotoxin)? Enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC)"
"The shiga-like toxin (SLT) of Enterohemorrhagic E. coli kills enterocytes::cell type"
"Enterohemorrhagic E. coli can result in glomerular damage and thus hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS)"
"Enterohemorrhagic E. coli is associated with the O157:H7 serotype"
"Which form of E. coli presents with a watery, 'traveler's diarrhea'? Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC)"
"Enterotoxigenic E. coli is transmitted by water sources"
"Enterotoxigenic E. coli is associated with the toxins heat labile toxin (LT) and heat stable toxin (ST)"
"Labile toxin of enterotoxigenic E. coli increases cAMP"
"Stable toxin of enterotoxigenic E. coli increases cGMP"
"Which form of E. coli presents with watery diarrhea? Enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC)"
"Enteroaggregative E. coli uses aggregative adherence fimbriae (AAF)::specific kind of fimbriae to make a biofilm on the intestinal wall"
"Uropathogenic E. coli adheres via type I fimbriae and P pili and is a major cause of UTIs"
"What is the treatment for E. coli UTI? TMP-SMX"
"Campylobacter jejuni grows best at 42°C::temperature"
"Campylobacter jejuni is microaerophilic, meaning it grows best at lower O2 than atmosphere::aerotolerance"
"The reservoir of Campylobacter jejuni is poultry, cattle, and dogs"
"Campylobacter jejuni is a curved bacteria that presents with inflammatory diarrhea that is initially watery and ill-smelling, proceeding to bloody diarrhea"
"What is the shape and stain of Campylobacter jejuni? Gram negative curved rod"
"Campylobacter jejuni, Vibrio cholerae and Helicobacter pylori are all curved rods that are oxidase positive"
"Which curved gram negative rod is invasive and can thus cause bacteremia? Campylobacter jejuni"
"Campylobacteri jejuni is a curved bacteria that can cause reactive arthritis, a spondyloarthropathy"
"Campylobacter jejuni is a curved bacteria that can precede Guillain-Barré syndrome, characterized by a(n) ascending::ascending or descending paralysis"
"Treatment for Campylobacter jejuni infection includes erythromycin or ciprofloxacin"
"Which comma-shaped bacteria is endemic to developing countries? Vibrio spp."
"What is the stain and shape of Vibrio spp.? Gram negative comma (curved) rod"
"Which gram-negative enteric bacteria causes rice water stools? Vibrio cholerae"
"Vibrio cholerae causes profuse watery diarrhea with visible flakes of mucous and epithelial cells"
"What is the route of transmission of Vibrio cholerae? Fecal-oral"
"Campylobacter jejuni, Vibrio cholerae and Helicobacter pylori are all curved rods that are oxidase positive"
"Vibrio cholerae is a curved bacteria that uses fimbriae to attach to the intestinal mucosa"
"Does Vibrio cholerae invade the intestinal wall? No"
"Vibrio cholerae produces cholera toxin, which ADP-ribosylates::mechanism and activates Gs resulting in a(n) increase in cAMP in epithelial cells"
"An increase in cAMP from cholera toxin opens the CFTR channel, increasing Cl- ion secretion into the intestinal lumen"
"Increased Cl- secretion from CFTR due to cholera toxin results in decreased Na+ absorption, thus H2O diffuses into the intestinal lumen"
"What is the treatment of Vibrio cholerae? Oral rehydration therapy (with glucose and Na+)"
"Vibrio cholerae grows on alkaline media, as it prefers basic environments"
"Vibrio cholerae is acid-labile::stable or labile"
"Vibrio cholerae is a bacteria that grows flat, yellow colonies on TCBS agar"
"Vibrio cholerae also produces mucinase to digest the protective mucous coat around intestinal cells"
"Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Vibrio vulnificus are associated with consumption of contaminated seafood"
"Vibrio vulnificus is associated with wound infections that contact contaminated seafood or water"
"What is the stain and shape of Helicobacter pylori? Gram negative curved/spiral rod"
"Is Vibrio cholerae motile? Yes"
"Is Helicobacter pylori motile? Yes"
"Which of the curved, negative rods is urease positive? Helicobacter pylori"
"Helicobacter pylori is urease-positive, meaning it splits urea into NH3 and CO2, the basis of the urea breath test"
"Campylobacter jejuni, Vibrio cholerae and Helicobacter pylori are all curved rods that are oxidase positive"
"Helicobacter pylori is a bacteria associated with peptic ulcers of the duodenum and stomach"
"Helicobacter pylori increases the risk of developing gastric adenocarcinoma and MALT lymphoma (malignancies)"
"Helicobacter pylori most commonly colonizes the gastric antrum but does not invade"
"Helicobacter pylori is urease-positive, allowing production of ammonia which creates a(n) alkaline environment"
"Helicobacter pylori triple therapy includes a(n) PPI, amoxicillin/metronidazole, and clarithromycin"
"Helicobacter pylori triple therapy includes a PPI, amoxicillin/metronidazole, and clarithromycin"
"Helicobacter pylori triple therapy includes a PPI, amoxicillin/metronidazole, and clarithromycin"
"Helicobacter pylori quadruple therapy is used when the bacteria is resistant to clarithromycin"
"Helicobacter pylori quadruple therapy is a PPI, bismuth therapy, metronidazole and a(n) tetracycline"
"What can be used in H. pylori triple therapy for those with a penicillin allergy? Metronidazole"
"Individuals with H. pylori who are taking proton-pump inhibitors (PPI) may have a false-negative urease test"
"Serum IgG may be elevated in a Helicobacter pylori infection"
"Helicobacter pylori infection can result in a(n) iron deficiency anemia"
"Helicobacter pylori infection can result in a(n) B12 (cobalamin) deficiency (along with iron)"
"Which bacteria demonstrates 'swarming motility' when plated? Proteus"
"Proteus mirabilis is a gram negative bacteria that classically forms large, 'staghorn' calculi (form from struvite stones) in the renal pelvis"
"Is Proteus mirabilis urease-positive? Yes"
"Proteus mirabilis is urease-positive, hence it forms a(n) alkaline environment that results in ammonium magnesium phosphate (struvite)::very specific composition kidney stone formation"
"The increase in pH caused by Proteus mirabilis results in precipitation of ammonium magnesium phosphate"
"Proteus mirabilis commonly causes urinary tract infections"
"Proteus mirabilis is said to have a(n) fishy odor"
"What is the treatment for uncomplicated Proteus mirabilis infection? TMP-SMX"
"Splenomegaly occurs in Plasmodium spp. infection (malaria) due to increased clearance of infected RBCs"
"Which species of Plasmodium can lead to renal failure? Plasmodium falciparum"
"Which form of Plasmodium spp. is seen here? Trophozoite (ring form)"
"Which form of Plasmodium spp. is seen here? Schizont (with merozoites)"
"The duffy antigen is necessary for Plasmodium vivax to infect cells"
"Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are antimalarials that can be used to cause immuno-suppression as well as retinopathy"
"McCune-Albright syndrome may present with precocious puberty (due to excess LH/FSH) or gigantism (due to excess growth hormone)"
"Klebsiella can result in abscess formation in the lung"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a chronic smoker that develops hypertension, hyperglycemia, and weight gain? Cushing's syndrome (likely ectopic production of ACTH due to small cell lung carcinoma)"
"Salmonella enteritidis produces an inflammatory diarrhea, with leukocytes present in stool"
"Hemolytic uremic syndrome will present as renal failure concurrent with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia"
"What RBC morphology is present in hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS)? Schistocytes (helmet cells)"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome that presents after Campylobacter jejuni infection results from autoimmune-mediated demyelination"
"What is the treatment for Proteus mirabilis pyelonephritis? Fluoroquinolones"
"What is the gram stain of Proteus? Gram negative"
"Does Klebsiella ferment lactose? Yes"
"Does Enterobacter ferment lactose? Yes"
"Does Serratia ferment lactose? Yes"
"Daptomycin is an antibacterial that works by creating transmembrane channels"
"Daptomycin is a lipopeptide used to treat Multi Drug Resistant Gram-Positive Cocci::gram stain and shape infections"
"Can you use Daptomycin to treat lung infections? No"
"The most significant side effects of Daptomycin manifest due to damage to patients muscles"
"Bacitracin is used as a topical treatment for highly resistant Gram positive infections"
"Bacitracin works by inhibiting Bactoprenol, a peptidoglycan \building block\\" carrier molecule\""
"Polymixin B, Bacitracin, and Neomycin are used as a triple antibiotic combination used to treat superficial skin infections"
"Polymixin B and E (Colistin) are used as salvage therapy for Multi Drug Resistant Gram Negative infections"
"Polymixins work by binding to LPS on bacterial cell membranes"
"Polymixins are severely toxic against the CNS, kidneys, and the lungs"
"Resistance to Colistin (Polymixin E) is encoded via the Mcr-1 gene which alters the structure of Lipid A"
"The suffix -penem is associated with the Carbapenem class of antimicrobials"
"Carbapenems are broad::broad or narrow-spectrum last resort antibiotics useful for bacteria that are resistant against β-lactam drugs"
"To be active, Carbapenems typically need to be administered with an inhibitor of Dehydropeptidase I, an inactivating enzyme located in the Kidney"
"Which Carbapenem is resistant to Renal Dehydropeptidase I? Meropenem"
"Carbapenems are associated with significant side effects, including GI distress, skin rash, and seizures*"
"Most Carbapenems are very useful against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, except Ertapenem which has limited coverage"
"Aztreonam, a β-lactam based monobactam, prevents cross-linking by binding to Penicillin-binding protein 3"
"Does Aztreonam have any cross-allergenicity with penicillins? No"
"Which anti-microbial class is Aztreonam particularly synergistic with? Aminoglycosides"
"Aztreonam is especially useful for patients with renal-insufficiency (and therefore can't tolerate aminoglycosides)"
"Aztreonam is used only for Gram negative Rods::gram stain and shape"
"While Aztreonam is usually nontoxic, patients can experience the occasional GI upset"
"Carbapenems work by by binding bacterial transpeptidases, inhibiting cell wall synthesis"
"Vancomycin is antibacterial that is indicated for multi-drug resistant Gram-positive bugs only"
"Vancomycin inhibits cell wall synthesis by binding the D-ala-D-ala portion of cell wall precursors, thus preventing transpeptidation"
"Resistance to Vancomycin is encoded via modifying the bacteria's D-Ala-D-Ala subunit to D-ala-D-lac"
"Vancomycin Resistant Bacteria typically spread resistance to other bacterium via Transposition"
"Vancomycin is especially suitable for Clostridioides difficile infections when it is prescribed orally::IV or Orally?"
"Vancomycin is only indicated for serious infections caused by Staph Aureus or Staph Epidermidis when they are resistant to Penicillins"
"Vancomycin is given empirically for signs of meningitis in most age groups"
"In regards to side effects, Vancomycin is well tolerated in general but NOT trouble free: - Nephrotoxicity - Ototoxicity - Thrombophlebitis"
"Upon rapid infusion of Vancomycin, if a patient presents like the following image - what is side effect is occurring? Red Man Syndrome"
"Vancomycin causes Red Man Syndrome due to stimulating release of Histamine"
"The following drugs are what class of antimicrobial? β-Lactamase Inhibitors"
"Which group of modified Penicillins does NOT need to be prescribed with β-lactamase (penicillinase) inhibitors? Right::Left or Right?"
"Which group of modified penicillins is especially useful for Pseudomonas and Gram Negative Rods (ex. Bacteroides)? Piperacillin, Ticarcillin"
"Which group of modified penicillins is associated with Hypersensitivity reactions? All :)"
"Which group of modified penicillins is especially associated with Acute Interstitial Nephritis (AIN)? Dicloxacillin, Nafcillin, Oxacillin"
"Which group of modified penicillins is associated with the following rash? Amoxicillin, Ampicillin, Aminopenicillins"
"What infection when mistakenly treated with Amoxicillin / Ampicillin will very frequently manifest a maculopapular / morbilliform rash? Infectious Mononucleosis (EBV infection)"
"Which has greater oral bioavailability? Amoxicillin::Ampicillin OR Amoxicillin?"
"To remember the coverage of Amoxicillin, Ampicillin, and Aminopenicillins, use the mnemonic: Am-cillin HHELPSS kill enterococci Haemophilus influenzae Helicobacter pylori Escherchia coli Listeria monocytogenes Proteus mirabilis Salmonella spp. Shigella spp."
"Penicillin G is given IV and IM, whereas Penicillin V is given Orally"
"The benzathine forms of Pencillin V/G make them long-acting"
"Penicillins and their derivatives are D-ala-D-ala structural analogs which bind and inhibit transpeptidases"
"Does inhibition of transpeptidases directly kill bacteria? No"
"Which Penicillinase-resistant penicillin is commonly used to treat Staph Aureus? Nafcillin"
"Penicillin V/G are mostly used for Gram-Positive organisms"
"Besides Gram + organisms, Penicillin V/G are used to treat Neisseria meningitidis::Gram Negative organism and Treponema pallidum::Spirochete organism"
"Pregnant patients with a positive culture of what microbe receive intrapartum penicillin prophylaxis? Streptococcus agalactiae"
"Patients who have been exposed to what STD should be given prophylactic Benzathine Penicillin G Treponema pallidum"
"Children who have been previously been exposed to what bacterial complication and are now manifesting with oropharyngeal symptoms should be given prophylaxis with Penicillin G or V? Rheumatic Fever"
"If a patient taking penicillin manifests with nausea, hives, or wheezing, and the following rash, they are demonstrating what side effect? Type I Hypersensitivity"
"If a patient taking penicillin manifests with mild fever, myalgia or arthralagias, and the following rash, they are demonstrating what side effect? Hypersensitivity Vasculitis (Cutaneous Small Vessel Vasculitis)"
"Patients taking Penicillin G/V can develop a(n) hemolytic anemia"
"Is the hemolytic anemia caused by penicillin G/V coombs positive or negative? Coombs positive"
"Between patients taking Ampicillin and Amoxicillin, which group has a higher risk of developing a Pseudomembranous Colitis? Ampicillin"
"In patients receiving Triple Therapy for H Pylori that have an amoxicillin allergy, what drug should replace it? Metronidazole"
"In pregnant women and children who have been infected with Borrelia Burgdorferi, they should receive amoxicillin and cefuroxime"
"Penicillins are NOT::are or are not indicated with Mycoplasma pneumoniae"
"Are penicillins bactericidal or bacteriostatic? Bactericidal"
"In patients with streptococcal infections who are allergic to penicillin, they should be given what class of antibiotics instead? Macrolides"
"Patients who are high risk for endocarditis and are undergoing surgical or dental procedures should be given Amoxicillin prophylaxis"
"Can penicillins / derivatives cause sloughing of skin at the dermal-epidermal junction? Yes"
"What gout drug can precipitate the side effects of penicillins? Probenecid"
"What structural feature of Penicillins give them their activity? B-lactam ring"
"Cephalosporins are β-Lactam drugs that inhibit cell wall synthesis but are less susceptible to penicillinases"
"Are Listeria, MRSA, or Enterococcus covered by 1st–4th generation cephalosporins? NO"
"Which generation of Cephalosporins are Cefazolin and Cephalexin? 1st Generation"
"Non-gram + cocci coverage of 1st generation Cephalosporins can be remembered with the Mnemonic PEcK: - Proteus mirabilis - Escherchia coli - Klebsiella pneumoniae"
"To prevent post-surgical wound infections by Staph aureus, what Cephalosporin is indicated? Cefazolin"
"Which generation of Cephalosporins are Cefaclor, Cefoxetin, Cefuroxime? 2nd Generation"
"All generations of Cephalosporins can be used for Gram-positive cocci::stain and shape"
"Non-gram + cocci coverage of 2nd generation Cephalosporins includes 1st generation (PEcK) as well as HENS - Haemophilus influenzae - Enterobacter aerogenes - Neisseria spp. - Serratia marscescens"
"Which generation of Cephalosporins are Ceftriaxone, Cefotaxime, Cefpodoxime, Ceftazidime? 3rd Generation"
"3rd generation Cephalosporins are used for serious Gram-negative infections resistant to other β-lactams"
"3rd generation cephalosporins are used for meningitis vs other generations of cephalosporins due to their ability to cross the Blood Brain Barrier"
"A 3rd generation cephalosporin (Ceftriaxone) indicated for patients who have Lyme disease that is disseminated"
"Which generation of Cephalosporins is Cefepime? 4th Generation"
"Cefepime is primarily used to treat multiple drug resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Cefepime is indicated as empiric therapy in febrile neutropenia::quite specific"
"Which generation of Cephalosporins is Ceftaroline? 5th Generation"
"Are Listeria, MRSA, or Enterococcus covered by 5th generation cephalosporins (Ceftaroline)? YES"
"Can Cephalosporins cause the same hypersensitivity reactions as Penicillin V/G? Yes"
"Cephalosporins rarely can cause anemia by inducing anti-RBC autoantibodies"
"Cephalosporins are associated with a(n) Disulfiram like reaction"
"Cephalosporins can cause a Vitamin K deficiency"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of Bacterial Protein Synthesis does Chloramphenicol inhibit? [C]"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics does Nitrofurantoin impact? [C]"
"Nitrofurantoin is used to treat patients who have UTIs and are currently pregnant"
"Nitrofurantoin is contraindicated in patients with a deficiency of the enzyme Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase"
"Patients who take Nitrofurantoin are at risk for fibrosis of the lungs"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics does Metronidazole impact? [C]"
"Metronidazole is used to treat anaerobic infections below the diaphragm"
"The important coverage of Metronidazole can be remembered with the mnemonic: \GET GAP on the Metro with metronidazole\\" - Giardia lamblia - Entamoeba histolytica - Trichomonas vaginalis - Gardnerella vaginalis - Anaerobes - Helicobacter Pylori triple therapy replacement\""
"Patients should not consume alcohol while taking Metronidazole"
"Patients taking Metronidazole can report side effects of headache as well as a(n) metallic taste"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Fungal homeostasis do Echinocandins impact? [A]"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of the HIV life cycle does Maraviroc target? [A]"
"Which step ([A] - [D]) of the viral life cycle does Oseltamivir and Zanamivir target? [D]"
"Oseltamivir and Zanamivir work by inhibiting Neuraminidase"
"Neuraminidase inhibitors are used to treat and prevent Influenza A and/or B and/or C? A & B"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of Bacterial Protein Synthesis do Aminoglycosides inhibit? [B]"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Aminoglycosides"
"Are aminoglycosides bactericidal or bacteriostatic? Bactericidal"
"Can aminoglycosides be used for both aerobic and anaerobic infections? No"
"Besides inhibiting the formation of the initiation complex, Aminoglycosides can damage protein synthesis by causing misreading of mRNA"
"Aminoglycosides are primarily indicated for severe Gram-Negative Rod::Stain and Shape? infections"
"Paromomycin is used as a luminal agent against parasites of the GI tract"
"Aminoglycosides are synergistic with β-lactams and Vancomycin since they increase cell wall permeability"
"Are aminoglycosides absorbed effectively from the alimentary / GI tract? No"
"Resistance to Aminoglycosides is encoded by bacterial transferase enzymes"
"Aminoglycosides cause nephrotoxicity by damaging the proximal convoluted tubule"
"Aminoglycosides can impact the neuromuscular junction, blocking post::pre or post? synaptic  Nm receptors"
"Patients taking aminoglycosides can present with vertigo, ataxia, and nausea due to damage to the vestibulocochlear apparatus"
"Patients are at much greater risk of developing ototoxicity while taking Aminoglycosides if they are used with a(n) Loop Diuretic"
"Aminoglycosides act as a teratogen by causing congenital deafness"
"Do bacterial ribosomal inhibitors affect the human ribosome (80S)? No"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of Bacterial Protein Synthesis do Tetracyclines inhibit? [E]"
"Are Tetracyclines indicated for patients who are experiencing symptoms of Meningitis? No"
"Doxycycline is safe to use in patients with renal failure as it is fecally eliminated"
"Patients should not consume Milk, Antacids, or Iron-containing preparations with Tetracyclines as they prevent the drugs absorption"
"If a patient presents to you with Lyme disease, your first line drug is Doxycycline"
"Tetracyclines are used to treat what cause of atypical pneumonia? Mycoplasma pneumoniae"
"Doxycycline and Clindamycin can be used as a treatment for what infectious skin condition Acne vulgaris"
"Patients taking Tetracyclines can manifest symptoms of skin sensitivity to light and GI distress"
"Tetracyclines are contraindicated in pregnancy and in children due to their ability to: 1) discolor / deposit in teeth 2) inhibit bone growth"
"Resistance to Tetracyclines occurs in two primary ways 1) Decreasing uptake 2) Increasing efflux"
"Tigecycline is a(n) tetracycline derivative that is resistant to bacterial efflux pumps"
"Tigecycline is useful for infections that have deep tissue penetration"
"Tigecycline is primarily used for bacteria that are multiple-drug resistant"
"Chloramphenicol prevents peptidyl bond formation by inhibiting the enzyme peptidyltransferase"
"Chloramphenicol is hepatically metabolized by UDP-glucuronyltransferase"
"Chloramphenicol is primarily used to treat meningitis and rocky mountain spotted fever"
"Chloramphenicol causes a dose-dependent anemia and a dose-independent aplastic-anemia"
"Chloramphenicol is contraindicated in infants as they havent developed enough UDP-glucuronyltransferase"
"If Chloramphenicol levels build up in infants before liver enzymes have developed, this manifests with Gray-Baby Syndrome"
"Resistance to Chloramphenicol is encoded via a plasmid-encoded acetyltransferase enzyme"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of Bacterial Protein Synthesis does Clindamycin inhibit? [D]"
"Clindamycin prevents translocation by binding the 50S ribosome and sterically hindering peptidyl transfer"
"Clindamycin is used to treat anaerobic infections above the diaphragm"
"Clindamycin is effective against invasive Group A Strep and Staph Aureus infection as it is a potent suppressor of the synthesis of their toxins"
"Clindamycin can cause a mild self-limited diarrhea and fever"
"Clindamycin use can unintentionally cause an overgrowth of Clostridioides difficile"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of Bacterial Protein Synthesis does Linezolid inhibit? [A]"
"Is Linezolid bacteriostatic or bactericidal? Both :)"
"Linezolid is a drug of last resort used primarily for MRSA and VRE"
"Linezolid can suppress the bone marrow, often manifesting with thrombocytopenia"
"Linezolid can cause a(n) peripheral and optic neuropathy"
"Use of Linezolid is contraindicated in patients taking drugs that increase seroto-nergic transmission"
"Resistance to Linezolid is developed via a point mutation of ribosomal RNA"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of Bacterial Protein Synthesis do Macrolides inhibit? [D]"
"Macrolides prevents translocation by binding the 50S ribosome and sterically hindering peptidyl transfer"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Macrolides"
"Tetracyclines are very effective against Rickettsia and Chlamydophila because these drugs accumulate intracellularly"
"What macrolide is used for Chlamydia (and thus for Chlamydia-Gonorrhea empirical therapy)? Azithromycin"
"When treating Chlamydia Trachomatis, when would you use Azithromycin over Doxycycline? - Patients who are pregnant - Chlamydia Trachomatis serotypes A-C (eye drop ointment), D-K (STI)"
"Prominent side effects of macrolides can be remembered with the mnemonic MACRO: - Motility issues of the GI tract - Arrhythmia due to prolonged QT - Cholestatic Hepatitis - Rash - eOsinophilia"
"Macrolides cause GI motility issues as they agonize the motilin receptor"
"Macrolides are often used for atypical-pneumonias"
"Macrolides can be used to treat Pertussis as long as it is still in the catarrhal phase"
"Azithromycin can be used as an antiprotozoal in the treatment of Babesiosis"
"Erythromycin eye ointment is indicated as prophylaxis for gonococcal conjunctivitis in the newborn"
"Which of the following macrolides inhibit cytochrome p450 enzymes? Clarithromycin, Erythromycin"
"Resistance to Penicillins and their derivatives occurs in two primary ways: 1) - mutations in Transpeptidases 2) - production of β-lactamases"
"Erythromycin is used off-label for the treatment of gastro-paresis"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of Bacterial Protein Synthesis does the Quinupristin-Dalfopristin (Streptogramins) combination inhibit? [C]"
"Quinupristin / Dalfopristin is used to treat vancomycin resistant::sensitive or resistant enterococci"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics do Fluoroquinolones impact? [E]"
"Which Topoisomerases do Fluoroquinolones inhibit? II and IV"
"Fluoroquinolones that are known as \Respiratory Fluoroquinolones\\" are known as such because they exhibit enhanced activity against Strep pneumoniae\""
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Fluoroquinolones"
"Fluoroquinolones cannot be taken with antacids as they inhibit the absorption of these drugs"
"Are Fluoroquinolones bactericidal or bacteriostatic? Bactericidal"
"Fluoroquinolones are often used to treat Gram Negative Rods infections of the GI and Urinary tract"
"Fluoroquinolones are indicated for treatment of Otitis Externa"
"Fluoroquinolones can be used for atypical-pneumonias"
"Does Ciprofloxacin alter the blood levels of drugs like Warfarin, Digoxin, Statins? Yes"
"Fluoroquinolone side effects (ex. GI upset) are most likely mediated by mitochondrial toxicity"
"Less commonly, Fluoroquinolones cause myopathy"
"Fluoroquinolones are contraindicated in the following groups due to damage to cartilage - pregnant women - nursing mothers - children < 18 years old"
"Fluoroquinolones are contraindicated in the following groups due to damage to tendons - people > 60 years old - patients taking prednisone"
"Some Fluoroquinolones can prolong the QT interval"
"Resistance to Fluoroquinolones is primarily encoded by chromosome-encoded mutations in DNA Gyrase"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics do Sulfonamides impact? [A]"
"Sulfonamides are competitive inhibitors of the enzyme Dihydropteroate Synthase"
"Sulfonamides are contraindicated in patients with a deficiency of the enzyme Glucose-6-Phosphate Dehydrogenase"
"Sulfonamides damage the kidney by causing tubulointerstitial nephritis"
"Sulfonamides cause skin sensitivity to light"
"Infants who are taking sulfonamides are at risk for Kernicterus"
"Drugs that bind to Albumin are displaced by Sulfonamides"
"Resistance to Sulfonamides is primarily developed via a mutation of bacterial dihydropteroate synthase"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics does Trimethoprim impact? [B]"
"Trimethoprim inhibits the enzyme Dihydrofolate Reductase"
"Can Sulfonamides cause sloughing of skin at the dermal-epidermal junction? Yes"
"Sulfonamides can cause a Type IV Renal Tubular Acidosis"
"Trimethoprim is often combined with Sulfamethoxazole"
"TMP-SMX is the 1st line for UTIs"
"Is TMP-SMX the 1st line for acute prostatitis? No*"
"At less than CD4 count of 200 in AIDS patients, TMP-SMX is indicated for treatment of and prophylaxis for Pneumocystis Jirovecii"
"At less than CD4 count of 100 in AIDS patients, TMP-SMX prophylaxis is indicated to prevent Toxoplasmosis"
"Because Trimethoprim blocks the reduction of DHF Reductase, it is associated with a(n) Megaloblastic anemia and well as increased susceptibility to infections"
"The bone marrow toxicity effects of Trimethoprim treatment may be avoided with coadminstration of folinic acid"
"When taken during early pregnancy, Trimethoprim can cause the baby to develop neural tube defects"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics do Rifamycins impact? [D]"
"Which one of the following drugs is a major cytochrome p450 inducer? Rifampin"
"Is Rifampin/Rifabutin indicated to treat both tuberculous and nontuberculous mycobacteria? Yes"
"Rifampin is used for close-contact prophylaxis of the following non-mycobacterial species 1 - Neisseria Meningitidis 2 - Haemophilus Influenzae B"
"Use of Rifamycins can change the color of bodily fluids to Red / Orange"
"Rifamycins can cause minor hepatotoxicity"
"Resistance to Rifamycins is developed when mutations reduce binding to RNA polymerase"
"Which step ([A] - [D]) of Mycobacterial homeostasis does Isoniazid (INH) impact? [C]"
"Isoniazid must be converted by a mycobacterial catalase-peroxidase to its active metabolite"
"People who have decreased levels of the liver enzyme n-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) lead to an increased risk** of toxicity"
"Isoniazid can cause hepatotoxicity"
"If a patient on Isoniazid develops arthralgias and a rash, you should suspect the patient has developed Drug Induced Lupus"
"Isoniazid is a cytochrome p450 inhibitor"
"Patients that overdose on Isoniazid will develop seizures"
"Patients that overdose on Isoniazid can develop a(n) high anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"If a patient on Isoniazid develops peripheral neuropathy and fatigue, you should suspect they have developed what vitamin deficiency? Vitamin B6"
"Resistance to Isoniazid can develop due to mutations that lead to underexpression of KatG"
"Is Isoniazid indicated to treat both tuberculous and nontuberculous mycobacteria? No"
"Which step ([A] - [D]) of Mycobacterial homeostasis does Ethambutol impact? [D]"
"Patients taking Ethambutol can manifest with red-green color blindness"
"Is Ethambutol indicated to treat both tuberculous and nontuberculous mycobacteria? Yes"
"Which step ([A] - [D]) of Mycobacterial homeostasis does Pyrazinamide impact? [B]"
"Pyrazinamide is activated to its active metabolite pyrazinoic acid in the host phagolysosome"
"Streptomycin is a second line anti-tuberculosis drug that is a(n) aminoglycoside"
"Streptomycin has notable CNS toxicity and nephrotoxicity"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics does Dapsone impact? [A]"
"Dapsone is used to treat Mycobacterium leprae"
"Which form of Leprosy is Dapsone used to treat? Lepromatous or Tuberculoid? Both :)"
"Rifampin is given with Dapsone because it delays resistance to Dapsone"
"Dapsone can be used to treat the blistering skin disorder Dermatitis Herpetiformis"
"Dapsone can be used for prophylaxis of Pneumocystis Jirovecii"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Bacterial Genetics does Clofazimine impact? [F]"
"Clofazimine is used to treat Mycobacterium leprae"
"Which form of Leprosy is Clofazimine used to treat? Lepromatous or Tuberculoid? Lepromatous)"
"What is the recommended primary prophylaxis against mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) for HIV patients with CD4 count <50/mm? None :)"
"Echinocandins inhibit cell wall synthesis by inhibiting synthesis of B-glucan"
"Echinocandins are primarily indicated for invasive infections of Aspergillosis and Candida"
"Echinocandins cause flushing and GI upset by stimulating Histamine release"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Echinocandins"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Fungal homeostasis does Flucytosine impact? [C]"
"Flucytosine is activated intracellularly to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) by cytosine deaminase"
"Flucytosine is given for systemic fungal infections"
"Flucytosine is primarily used for cryptococcal meningitis"
"Flucytosine has significant bone marrow toxicity"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Fungal homeostasis do Polyenes impact? [B]"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Polyenes"
"Polyenes disrupt cell membrane stability by binding  "
"Amphotericin B is given for serious systemic fungal infections"
"When Amphotericin B is used for Meningitis it is given intrathecally"
"To decrease toxicity of amphotericin B, use a(n) liposomal formulation and give with IV normal saline"
"Amphotericin B increases the renal tubule permeability, resulting in K+ and Mg2+ wasting"
"Upon IV infusion of Amphotericin B, patients can present with fever and chills, hypotension, and headache"
"At the infusion site of the IV, Amphotericin B can cause a(n) thrombophlebitis"
"Upon Intrathecal infusion of Amphotericin B, patients can present with seizures and headache"
"Amphotericin B causes a dose-dependent / slow-accumulated Type 1 Renal Tubular Acidosis"
"Amphotericin B causes a dose-dependent / slow-accumulated reversible nephrotoxicity"
"Amphotericin B suppresses renal EPO synthesis"
"Can Nystatin be given for systemic fungal infections? No"
"Nystatin is used to treat non-systemic infections by Candida albicans"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Fungal homeostasis does Terbinafine impact? [E]"
"Terbinafine is mainly used to treat dermatophytoses"
"Terbinafine is associated with side effects of GI upset, headaches, hepatotoxicity, and taste::type of sensation disturbance"
"Which step ([A] - [F]) of Fungal homeostasis do Azoles impact? [D]"
"Azoles work by inhibiting cytochrome P450 enzymes in the Fungi"
"Are Azoles used for local AND systemic fungal infections? Yes"
"Fluconazole is used for: - chronic suppression of cryptococcal meningitis in AIDS patients - candidal infections of all types"
"Itraconazole is used for systemic infections with dimorphic fungi"
"Clotrimazole and Miconazole are commonly used for topical fungal infections such as Tinea"
"Voriconazole is used for Invasive Aspergillosis and Candida Esophagitis in AIDS patients"
"Isavuconazole is used for serious Aspergillus and Mucor infections"
"Azoles can inhibit cytochrome p450 enzymes involved in synthesis of steroids in humans"
"Ketoconazole can be used a second line treatment for advanced prostate cancer"
"Ketoconazole can be used to treat patients with Cushing Syndrome"
"Azoles can cause side effects of dizziness, nausea, vomiting, and hepatotoxicity"
"Azoles can cause anti-androgenic side effects, most commonly resulting in gynecomastia"
"Pyrimethamine is an antiprotozoal therapy that works by inhibiting Dihydrofolate Reductase"
"Pyrimethamine + Sulfadiazine is the 1st line treatment for Toxoplasmosis"
"Pyrimethamine + Dapsone is used as a second line option to prevent Pneumocystis Jirovecii Pneumonia in patients with HIV/AIDS"
"Amphotericin B can be used for certain protozoal infections, particularly Leishmaniasis and Naegleria Fowleri"
"In the treatment of Trypanosoma brucei, Suramin is used for Blood-borne disease"
"In the treatment of Trypanosoma brucei, Melarsoprol is used for CNS disease"
"Nifurtimox and Benznidazole are used to treat Trypanosoma cruzi"
"Sodium stibogluconate is used to treat all forms of Leishmaniasis"
"Chloroquine is an antiplasmodial that works by blocking detoxification of heme"
"Can Chloroquine be used to treat Plasmodium Falciparum? Yes*"
"Resistance to Chloroquine is developed due to membrane pumps"
"Plasmodium Falciparum is primarily treated with either combinations of Artemether/Lumefantrine OR Atovaquone/proguanil"
"For life threatening Malaria, use quinidine or artesunate"
"Bendazoles are antihelminthic agents that work by inhibiting microtubules"
"Pyrantel pamoate is an antihelminthic that works by causing spastic::spastic or flaccid paralysis of helminths"
"Praziquantel is used as an anti-helminthic agent that works by increasing helminth permeability to calcium"
"Ivermectin is an anti-helminthic therapy that works by causing flaccid::spastic or flaccid paralysis of helminths"
"Diethylcarbamazine is an anti-helminthic agent that works by interfering with arachidonic acid metabolism"
"Chloroquine is associated with pruritis, especially in dark-skinned individuals"
"Long term use / high-doses of Chloroquine can cause an irreversible retinopathy"
"Permethrin is an anti-scabies/louse therapy that works by causing spastic::spastic or flaccid paralysis of scabies/lice"
"Malathion is an anti-scabies/louse therapy that works by causing flaccid::spastic or flaccid paralysis of scabies/lice"
"Lindane is an anti-scabies/louse therapy that works by inhibiting the GABA-A channel in scabies/lice"
"Maraviroc works by binding CCR-5 on the surface of Monocytes / T cells"
"Maraviroc prevents HIV infection by preventing host cell interaction with what glycoprotein? gp120"
"Maraviroc carries a significant risk of hepatotoxicity"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of the HIV life cycle does Enfuvirtide target? [B]"
"Enfuvirtide prevents HIV infection by binding what HIV glycoprotein? gp41"
"Enfuvirtide causes a skin reaction at injection sites"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (NRTI)"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of the HIV life cycle do NRTI's target? [C]"
"NRTIs are competitive inhibitors of the HIV Reverse Transcriptase"
"NRTI's are mostly nucleoside analogs"
"Do most NRTI's need to be phosphorylated to be active? Yes"
"When incorporated into the nascent DNA chain, NRTI's cause chain termination as they lack a(n) 3' OH group"
"Tenofovir (TDF) and Emtricitabine (FTC) are given as a combination drug for pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV"
"In treating HIV, Zidovudine (ZDV)::NRTI is used for general prophylaxis as well as decreasing risk of fetal transmission during pregnancy"
"Abacavir (ABC) is contraindicated for HIV treatment if patient has an HLA-B*5701 mutation"
"Patients taking NRTIs suffer from bone marrow suppression"
"Which NRTI's are particularly associated with peripheral neuropathy? Didanosine (ddl), Lamivudine (3TC), Stavudine (d4T)"
"Patients taking nucleoside NRTI's can develop a(n) lactic acidosis"
"Zidovudine (ZDV/AZT) can cause a(n) megaloblastic anemia and agranulocytosis"
"Didanosine (ddl) can cause pancreatitis"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor (NNRTI)"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of the HIV life cycle does NNRTIs target? [C]"
"NNRTIs are non-competitive inhibitors of the HIV Reverse Transcriptase"
"Do NNRTI's need to be phosphorylated to be active? No"
"Rash and hepatotoxicity are common to which NNRTI's? All :)"
"Vivid dreams / Nightmares and CNS symptoms are side effects seen with which NNRTI? Efavirenz"
"Which NNRTI's are contraindicated in pregnancy? Delaviridine, Efavirenz"
"Nevirapine is associated with induction of cytochrome p450 enzymes"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? HIV Protease Inhibitors"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of the HIV life cycle do drugs with the suffix -navir target? [E]"
"HIV Protease Inhibitors inhibit the maturation of new viruses"
"HIV Protease Inhibitor's are metabolized by Cytochrome P450"
"Ritonavir is a cytochrome p450 inhibitor"
"Which HIV Protease Inhibitor is especially associated with Nephropathy/Nephrolithiasis, Hematuria, and Thrombocytopenia Indinavir"
"Which HIV Protease Inhibitor is especially associated with GI intolerance (Nausea, Diarrhea) Saquinavir"
"All HIV Protease Inhibitors cause insulin resistance and dyslipidemia"
"Patients taking HIV Protease inhibitors for awhile can resemble patients on chronic Glucocorticoid therapy due to their ability to cause Lipodystrophy"
"Enfuvirtide and Maraviroc are used for treatment-resistant patients with HIV"
"Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy (HAART) is often initiated at the time of HIV Diagnosis"
"A HAART regimen typically consists of 3 drugs to prevent resistance: 2 NRTIs and preferably a(n) Integrase Inhibitor"
"What class of antimicrobials are the following drugs? Integrase Inhibitors"
"Which step ([A] - [E]) of the HIV life cycle do drugs with the infix -tegra- target? [D]"
"Drugs like Dolutegravir, Elvitegravir, and Raltegravir reversibly inhibit HIV integrase"
"If a patient taking Integrase Inhibitors can develops elevated Creatine Kinase levels, what should you suspect is occurring? Rhabdomyolysis"
"Osteitis Fibrosa Cystica is the classic bone disease of primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism"
"Is therapy for Hepatitis Viruses indicated for acute or chronic infection? Chronic"
"All patients with chronic HCV except those with limited life expectancy should be considered for treatment"
"The goal of chronic HCV therapy is to established a sustained virologic response; that HCV RNA is not detected by PCR for 6 months"
"The direct acting antiretroviral HCV drugs work by targeting RNA synthesis"
"HCV therapeutics with the suffix -buvir work by inhibiting the NS5B RNA-dependent polymerase"
"Before beginning treatment for HCV - a clinical history, physical exam, and genotyping are undergone"
"HCV therapeutics with the suffix -asvir work by inhibiting the NS5A protein, which plays an integral role in viral replication"
"HCV therapeutics with the suffix -previr work by inhibiting the NS3/4A protease"
"Which HCV Therapies are generally well tolerated and occasionally present with fatigue, headache and nausea Ledipasvir, Sofosbuvir"
"Which HCV Therapies are generally well tolerated and occasionally present with photosensitivity reactions and rash Simeprevir"
"Ribavirin is an antiviral that works by inhibiting the synthesis of guanine nucleotides"
"Ribavirin is a(n) guanosine nucleoside analog that acts by competitively inhibiting Inosine Monophosphate Dehydrogenase"
"Patients taking Ribavirin can develop a(n) hemolytic anemia"
"Ribavirin is extremely contraindicated in what patient population? Pregnant patients"
"Ribavirin is used to treat RSV in adults"
"Ribavirin can be used to treat HCV"
"The traditional treatment for HCV was pegylated Interferon alpha / oral ribavirin"
"IM::ROA Ceftriaxone is the first line treatment for Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"Patients who have ampicillin resistant Haemophilus Influenzae should be given a(n) 3rd generation cephalosporin"
"What cephalosporin should be used to treat endocarditis caused by Strep viridans and HACEK organisms Ceftriaxone"
"Vancomycin can cause a potentially fatal delayed hypersensitivity reaction known as DRESS syndrome"
"Which step ([A] - [D]) of the viral life cycle does Ribavirin target? [C]"
"What class of antivirals are the following drugs? Guanosine analogs Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir, Ganciclovir, Valganciclovir"
"Which step ([A] - [D]) of the viral life cycle do Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir, Ganciclovir, Valganciclovir target? [C]"
"In their first step of bioactivation, -cyclovirs are converted to the monophosphate form by specific herpesvirus kinases"
"Which group of -cyclovir's is bioactivated by HSV/VZV thymidine kinase and indicated for treatment of them? Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir OR Ganciclovir, Valganciclovir"
"Which group of -cyclovir's is bioactivated by a CMV viral kinase and indicated for treatment of them? Ganciclovir, Valganciclovir Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir OR Ganciclovir, Valganciclovir"
"In their second step of bioactivation, -cyclovirs are converted to the triphosphate form by specific cellular kinases"
"For Herpes Zoster, which of the following antivirals is indicated? Famciclovir"
"Do any of the following antivirals have activity against CMV? No"
"Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir have weak activity against EBV"
"Are Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir used to treat both HSV-induced mucocutaneous and genital lesions as well as for encephalitis? Yes"
"Do Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir have an effect on latent forms of HSV / VZV? No"
"Acyclovir, Famciclovir, Valacyclovir are used for HSV/VZV prophylaxis in immunocompromised patients"
"Valacyclovir, a prodrug of acyclovir, has better oral bioavailability"
"Patients taking acyclovir, famciclovir, valacyclovir are at risk of obstructive crystalline nephropathy and acute renal failure if not adequately hydrated"
"Resistance to -cyclovir's develops via a mutation of the viral kinase"
"Ganciclovir and Valganciclovir are used to treat CMV, especially in immunocompromised patients"
"Letermovir is an antiviral used for treatment and prophylaxis of CMV infections who have received allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplants"
"Valganciclovir, a prodrug of ganciclovir, has better oral bioavailability"
"Ganciclovir causes toxicity at the bone marrow and the kidneys"
"Foscarnet and Cidofovir are used for CMV retinitis in immunocompromised patients"
"Which step ([A] - [D]) of the viral life cycle do Foscarnet and Cidofovir target? [C]"
"Foscarnet and Cidofovir directly inhibit DNA polymerase"
"Foscarnet is a(n) Pyrophosphate analog"
"Foscarnet has been shown to inhibit HIV Reverse Transcriptase::enzyme"
"Do Foscarnet and Cidofovir require any kinase activation? No"
"Foscarnet and Cidofovir are indicated for acyclovir-resistant HSV infections"
"Foscarnet and Cidofovir can cause damage to the kidneys"
"Patients taking Foscarnet can experience various electrolyte abnormalities"
"Resistance to Foscarnet develops via a mutation of DNA Polymerase"
"Cidofovir preferentially inhibits viral DNA polymerase"
"To reduce Cidofovir nephrotoxicity, coadminister with probenecid and IV saline"
"Pyrazinamide is associated with side effects of hepatotoxicity and hyperuricemia"
"When treating patients with M avium-intracellulare (MAC) infections, you can give Ethambutol + Macrolides*"
"Type III familial dyslipidemia is also known as Dysbetalipoproteinemia"
"Type III familial dyslipidemia is due to a defective Apo E allele"
"What is the mode of inheritance of type III familial dyslipidemia? Autosomal Recessive"
"Type III familial dyslipidemia presents with tuberoeruptive xanthomas and palmar xanthomas"
"Does type III familial dyslipidemia cause an increased risk for atherosclerosis? Yes"
"The serum lipoproteins elevated in type III familial dyslipidemia are Chylomicrons and VLDL"
"Type III familial dyslipidemia is confirmed by genetic analysis that shows absence of E3 and E4 Apo alleles"
"Pegloticase is used for severe, refractory gout"
"If initiated without NSAIDS / Colchicine, Allopurinol / Febuxostat may precipitate a(n) gout attack"
"Rasburicase is a non-PEGylated uricase used for prophylaxis and treatment of Tumor Lysis Syndrome"
"Allopurinol can irritate the GI tract"
"Griseofulvin inhibits the action of fungal cell microtubules"
"Griseofulvin deposits in keratin-containing tissues"
"Griseofulvin is an oral treatment that is most often used to inhibit the growth of dermatophytes"
"Griseofulvin is contraindicated in patients who are pregnant"
"Patients taking Griseofulvin can develop neurotoxicity"
"Patients taking Griseofulvin should not consume alcohol as they can develop Flushing and GI Upset"
"Griseofulvin is a cytochrome p450 inducer"
"The fungal cell membrane is composed of Ergosterol as opposed to cholesterol"
"Voriconazole is an antifungal that can produce blurred vision and changes in color vision"
"Simeprevir can cause drug-drug interactions by inhibiting cytochrome p450"
"The ureter arises from the renal pelvis, then travels past the following structures in the listed order: - travels under::over/under? the gonadal arteries over the belly of the psoas muscle - travels over::over/under? the common iliac arteries - and finally under the uterine artery / vas deferens"
"The muscle fibers within the intramural part of the ureter help prevent vesicoureteral reflux"
"There are three constrictions of the ureter: 1 - Ureteropelvic junction 2 - at the Pelvic inlet 3 - Ureterovesical junction"
"Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis is a childhood arthritis seen in patients younger than 16 years old"
"Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis commonly manifests with arthralgias in 2+::how many? joints"
"Patients with Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis often present with daily spiking fevers and a(n) salmon-pink macular rash"
"Patients with Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis often develop uveitis in their eye"
"Patients with Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis will be prescribed therapy to reduce inflammation"
"On serum analysis, patients with Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis will frequently present with: - decreased RBCs - increased WBCs - increased platelets"
"Cyclosporine can be used to treat psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis"
"What anti-herpetic drug can produce CNS side effects such as confusion, delirium, vertigo, hallucinations? Acyclovir"
"HSV prophylaxis is important for pregnant women with active recurrent genital herpes"
"NNRTIs can cause Stevens-Johnson Syndrome::Dermatologic Syndrome as a side effect"
"Can Acyclovir be used to treat neonatal HSV? Yes"
"Once -cyclovir's are bioactivated to their triphosphate form, these then inhibit viral DNA polymerase by incorporation into the nascent DNA strand"
"Which NRTI's cause lipodystrophy? Zidovudine (ZDV), Stavudine (d4T)"
"The toxicities that result from NRTIs are based in part by the inhibition of Mitochondrial DNA synthesis"
"Syringomyelia (cystic dilation of central cord) is associated with Chiari I malformations"
"Rhabdomyolysis is a syndrome caused by muscle necrosis that can lead to renal failure and death"
"Rhabdomyolysis is most commonly caused by a(n) crush injury or strenuous exercise"
"What two cholesterol modulating medications should not be combined due to a high risk of causing rhabdomyolysis? Statins + Fibrates"
"Destroyed muscle cells release large amounts of myoglobin and purines, which lead to acute tubular necrosis"
"Rhabdomyolysis typically presents with muscle pains, weakness, vomiting, and hypocalcemia"
"Destroyed muscle cells in Rhabdomyolysis release large amounts of potassium, causing arrhythmias"
"Patients who have Rhabdomyolysis are diagnosed by observing a(n) creatine kinase level greater than 1000 u/L"
"Limb Compartment Syndrome presents with severe pain and tense, swollen compartments that worsens with limb flexion"
"In Limb Compartment Syndrome, increased tissue pressure within a fascial compartment of a limb exceeds the perfusion pressure, leading to venous outflow obstruction and arteriolar collapse"
"Increased pressure within a fascial compartment of a limb experiencing Compartment Syndrome is defined by a fascial compartment pressure to diastolic pressure gradient of < 30 mmHg"
"Limb compartment syndrome is often caused by traumatic injury due to: - significant long bone fractures - reperfusion injury - animal venoms"
"As limb compartment syndrome progresses, patients can develop motor deficits"
"Trochanteric bursitis results from inflammation of the trochanteric bursa and gluteus medius tendon located lateral to the greater trochanter of the femur"
"Trochanteric bursitis often occurs because the gluteus medius is overcompensating to stabilize the hip"
"Patients with trochanteric bursitis present with lateral hip pain that may radiate down the thigh"
"Trochanteric bursitis is often seen more in women::which sex?"
"Which ligament of the ankle is the most commonly sprained overall? Anterior TaloFibular Ligament (ATL)"
"Sprains of the Anterior Talofibular Ligament are classified as a(n) low ankle sprain"
"Sprains of the Anterior Talofibular Ligament are due to an over-inversion of the foot"
"What ankle sprain is the most common high ankle sprain? A sprain of the Anterior Inferior Tibiofibular Ligament (AITFL)"
"Which renal tubular defect syndrome is associated with the use of expired tetracyclines? Fanconi Syndrome"
"If a patient has a swollen, painful knee that cannot extend their knee against gravity, what condition should you first suspect? Patellar fracture"
"Iliotibial Band Syndrome is caused by an overuse injury of the lateral knee"
"Iliotibial Band Syndrome is primarily seen in what sport? Running"
"In Iliotibial Band Syndrome, pain develops secondary to friction of the iliotibial band against the lateral femoral epicondyle"
"The iliotibial band is a fibrous band that originates from the iliac crest to the proximal tibia and provides lateral knee stability"
"Patients with a(n) leg-length discrepancy are at increased risk of Trochanteric Bursitis"
"Metronidazole can be used for what colitis causing infection? Clostridioides difficile"
"Patients on chronic steroid therapy should not be prescribed fluoroquinolones due to a significantly increased risk of tendon / cartilage damage"
"Are Fluoroquinolones the 1st line for acute prostatitis? Yes*"
"What antimicrobial nucleic acid synthesis inhibitor can be used to treat Salmonella gastroenteritis and osteomyelitis? Fluoroquinolones"
"Sulfonamides are cytochrome p450 inhibitors"
"Sulfonamides can cause hypothyroidism"
"Fluoroquinolones can predispose to superinfection by resistant C. difficile"
"Hypertensive retinopathy revolves around retinal damage due to chronic uncontrolled hypertension"
"Patients with hypertensive retinopathy will present on funduscopy with flame-shaped retinal hemorrhages, arteriovenous nicking, microaneurysms, macular star, and cotton-wool spots"
"In a patient with Hypertensive Retinopathy, the presence of papilledema requires immediate lowering of blood pressure"
"Medial tibial stress syndrome is also known as Shin Splints"
"Medial tibial stress syndrome is common cause of shin pain and diffuse tenderness in runners::activity"
"Medial tibial stress syndrome is caused by bone resorption that outpaces bone formation in the tibial cortex"
"The chancroid seen in Haemophilus ducreyi is painful::painful or painless"
"What is the gram stain of Haemophilus influenzae? Gram negative"
"What is the shape of Haemophilus influenzae? Coccobacillus"
"What agar is used to grow Haemophilus influenzae? Chocolate agar"
"Factors V (NAD+) and X (hematin) are added to chocolate agar to grow Haemophilus influenzae"
"What is the primary method of transmission of Haemophilus influenzae? Aerosol"
"Which bacteria classically causes epiglottitis? Haemophilus influenzae"
"Haemophilus influenzae classically causes epiglottitis, which can be described as 'cherry-red' on gross appearance"
"Haemophilus influenzae is a common cause of otitis media::ear pathology in children"
"Meningitis is only caused by Haemophilus influenzae when the bacteria is in its type B capsular form"
"Haemophilus influenzae infection consequences can be remembered by the mnemonic hAEMOPhilus: Arthritis (septic) Epiglottitis (cherry red appearance) Meningitis (type B) Otitis media Pneumonia"
"What strain of Haemophilus influenzae is a vaccine available for? Type B (meningitis causing)"
"The Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine is a(n) capsular polysaccharide vaccine conjugated to diphtheria toxoid (most commonly)"
"When is the Haemophilus influenzae vaccine administered? 2-18 months of age"
"The capsular polysaccharide used in the Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) vaccine is polyribosylribitol phosphate (PRP)"
"What is the treatment of Haemophilus influenzae meningitis? Ceftriaxone"
"What is used for prophylaxis of Haemophilus influenzae? Rifampin"
"What is the treatment of Haemophilus influenzae mucosal infections (e.g. epiglottitis, otitis media, etc)? Amoxicillin +/- clavulanate"
"Haemophilus influenzae can grow in close proximity to Staphylococcus aureus on blood agar"
"Epiglottitis with a 'thumb-print' sign on imaging is classic for Haemophilus influenzae infection"
"Encapsulated Haemophilus influenzae will display a positive Quellung reaction"
"Haemophilus influenzae is able to colonize the upper respiratory tract due to IgA protease::virulence factor"
"Haemophilus influenzae is a gram negative coccobacillus that causes septic arthritis in sickle cell (asplenic) patients"
"What is the gram stain of Legionella? Gram negative*"
"Legionella pneumophila gram stains poorly, thus a(n) silver stain is used to visualize the bacterium"
"What is the shape of Legionella? Rod"
"Legionella pneumophila is a bacterium grown on buffered charcoal yeast extract with iron and cysteine"
"Legionella pneumophila is a bacterium grown on buffered charcoal yeast extract with iron and cysteine"
"Which disease caused by Legionella pneumophila is often self-limited? Pontiac fever"
"Pontiac fever caused by Legionella pneumophila is characterized by fever and malaise (flu-like symptoms)"
"Which disease caused by Legionella pneumophila is common in smokers? Legionnaires' disease"
"Legionnaires' disease due to Legionella pneumophila is characterized by a(n) lobar* pneumonia"
"Legionnaires' disease caused by Legionella pneumophila is associated with low blood Na+ (hyponatremia)"
"Legionnaires' disease caused by Legionella pneumophila is associated with confusion::head symptom"
"Legionnaires' disease caused by Legionella pneumophila is associated with diarrhea::GI symptom"
"Which disease caused by Legionella pneumophila is associated with high fever and NO respiratory symptoms (pneumonia)? Pontiac fever"
"What is the definitive test for diagnosing Legionnaires' disease (Legionella pneumophila)? Sputum culture"
"What is the rapid test for diagnosing Legionnaires' disease (Legionella pneumophila)? **PCR**, Urine antigen test"
"Treatment for Legionella pneumophila infection includes azithromycin (macrolides) or levofloxacin/moxifloxacin (fluoroquinolones)"
"Treatment for Legionella pneumophila infection includes azithromycin (macrolides) or levofloxacin, moxifloxicin (fluoroquinolones)"
"Legionella pneumophila is oxidase positive"
"Transmission of Legionella pneumophila occurs via aerosols from environmental water sources"
"Which disease caused by Legionella pneumophila is associated with high fever and respiratory symptoms (pneumonia)? Legionnaires' disease"
"Plantar fasciitis is characterized by sharp heel pain that is worse in the morning"
"Plantar fasciitis is more commonly seen in female::sex? patients and those who are obese::weight?"
"Plantar Fasciitis is distinguished from Tarsal Tunnel Syndrome in that heel pain improves with use"
"The Windlass test can be used to diagnose Plantar Fasciitis, in which dorsiflexing the hallux elicits pain in the heel"
"Paragangliomas are associated with MEN 2A/2B"
"Paragangliomas most commonly occur at the neck::location, known as a(n) Carotid::name paraganglioma"
"Paragangliomas typically present asymptomatically"
"What is the gram stain of Bartonella henselae? Gram negative"
"The Warthin-Starry stain is used to visualize Bartonella henselae"
"Cat scratch fever is a complication of Bartonella henselae infection"
"Cat scratch fever due to Bartonella henselae presents with axillary or cervical lymphadenitis"
"Cat scratch fever is a complication of Bartonella henselae in immunocompetent patients"
"Bacillary angiomatosis is a complication of Bartonella henselae in immunocompromised patients"
"Bacillary angiomatosis is a complication of Bartonella henselae transmitted via cat scratches"
"Bacillary angiomatosis is a complication of Bartonella henselae that presents with raised red vascular lesions on the skin"
"Bartonella henselae bacillary angiomatosis will have neutrophilic inflammation on biopsy"
"HHV-8 Kaposi sarcoma will have lymphocytic inflammation on biopsy"
"What is the treatment for Bartonella henselae in the immuno-compromised (bacillary angiomatosis)? Doxycycline or Azithromycin::2"
"De Quervain Tenosynovitis presents with pain over the radial side of the wrist"
"What is the treatment for Bartonella henselae in the immuno-competent (cat scratch disease)? Azithromycin"
"Lymph node biopsy in cat scratch disease reveals stellate granulomas resembling those seen in sarcoidosis"
"Bartonella spp. is one of the most common causes of culture-negative endocarditis::heart complication"
"Bartonella henselae can cause bacillary peliosis, characterized by cystic blood-filled spaces in the hepatic parenchyma"
"Which bacteria can cause bacillary peliosis? Bartonella henselae"
"Bacillary angiomatosis is commonly confused with Kaposi's sarcoma"
"In De Quervain Tenosynovitis, there is stenosing tenosynovial inflammation of the first dorsal compartment tendons that run over the radial styloid process, these being the tendons of the: - Abductor Pollicis Longus - Extensor Pollicis Brevis"
"Inflammation of the 1st dorsal compartment in De Quervain Tenosynovitis is due to thickening / swelling of the Extensor Retinaculum, which causes friction with tendon movement"
"Central to the pathogenesis of De Quervain Tenosynovitis is repetitive wrist motion"
"De Quervain Tenosynovitis can be diagnosed with the Finkelstein Test, in which pain is elicited over the radial styloid with ulnar deviation of the hand while the thumb is flexed in the palm"
"What is the gram stain of Brucella? Gram negative"
"Sialolithiasis is the presence of stones in the salivary gland duct"
"In sialolithiasis, a single stone is more common in the submandibular gland, specifically in the wharton duct"
"Sialolithiasis presents as recurrent pre-/peri-prandial pain and swelling in affected gland"
"Sialolithiasis is typically caused by dehydration or trauma"
"Sialolithiasis is typically treated conservatively with NSAIDs, gland massage, warm compresses, and sialogogues"
"What is the shape of Brucella? Coccobacillus"
"What are the reservoirs of the Brucella spp. strains? Farm animals (cows, pigs, goats, sheep)"
"Direct transmission of Brucella spp. results from contact with farm animals (cows, pigs, goats, sheep are the reservoirs)"
"Indirect transmission of Brucella spp. results from ingestion of unpasteurized dairy products (milk, cheese)"
"Brucellosis due to Brucella spp. presents with undulant fever, anorexia, and fatigue"
"Which zoonotic bacteria presents with undulating fevers? Brucella spp."
"Brucella spp. is a(n) facultative intracellular zoonotic bacteria found within macrophages of the reticuloendothelial system"
"Brucella spp. is a facultative intracellular zoonotic bacteria found within macrophages of the reticuloendothelial system"
"Which facultative intracellular zoonotic bacteria presents with hepatosplenomegaly? Brucella spp."
"What is a manifestation of chronic Brucellosis? Osteomyelitis"
"Treatment of Brucellosis includes doxycycline and rifampin"
"Treatment of Brucellosis includes doxycycline and rifampin"
"What is the reservoir for Francisella tularensis? Rabbits"
"Direct transmission of Francisella tularensis results from contact with rabbits"
"Indirect transmission of Francisella tularensis results from bite by dermacentor tick or deerfly"
"Which zoonotic bacterial infection must be reported to the CDC? Francisella tularensis (Tularemia)"
"Indirect transmission of Francisella tularensis results from inhalation of aerosol"
"What is the gram stain of Francisella tularensis? Gram negative"
"What is the shape of Francisella tularensis? Coccobacillus"
"Francisella tularensis is facultative intracellular"
"Francisella tularensis is a zoonotic bacteria that forms a painful ulcer with a(n) black base at the site of infection"
"Francisella tularensis is a zoonotic bacteria that forms caseating granulomas within the lymph nodes of the reticuloendothelial system"
"Francisella tularensis is a zoonotic bacteria that forms caseating granulomas with regional lymphadenopathy"
"Treatment of Tularemia includes streptomycin and gentamicin"
"Which two states are associated with Tularemia? Missouri and Arkansas::location"
"Which enteric gram negative coccobacillus has a bipolar (safety-pin) staining pattern? Yersinia spp."
"How is Pasteurella multocida most commonly transmitted? Dog or Cat bites"
"Pasteurella multocida is a zoonotic bacteria that causes cellulitis early in infection, further spreading and causing osteomyelitis"
"Pasteurella multocida is a zoonotic bacteria that causes cellulitis early in infection, further spreading and causing osteomyelitis"
"Which zoonotic bacteria is catalase positive? Pasteurella multocida"
"Which zoonotic bacteria is oxidase positive? Pasteurella multocida"
"Which zoonotic bacteria is encapsulated? Pasteurella multocida"
"What is the most important virulence factor of Pasteurella multocida? Capsule"
"Pasteurella multocida is a zoonotic bacteria that grows on 5% sheep blood agar"
"Which zoonotic (non-enteric) gram negative coccobacilli have bipolar (safety-pin) staining pattern? Pasteurella multocida and Yersinia spp."
"Empiric treatment of Pasteurella multocida is with penicillin"
"What unique antibodies in plasma do patients with the A blood type have? ::name and isotype"
"Patients with the A blood type cannot receive which blood types? "
"What unique antibodies in plasma do patients with the B blood type have? ::name and isotype"
"What unique antibodies in plasma do patients with the AB blood type have? none"
"Which blood type does not have any group antigens on RBC surfaces? "
"Patients with the B blood type cannot receive which blood types? "
"What unique antibodies in plasma do patients with the O blood type have? ::name and isotype"
"Patients with the AB blood type cannot receive which blood types? None"
"Patients with the O blood type cannot receive which blood types? "
"What unique antibodies in plasma do patients with the Rh+ blood type have? none"
"What unique antibodies in plasma do patients with the Rh- blood type have? "
"Rh- mothers must be treated during pregnancy with anti-D Immunoglobulin (RhoGAM) to prevent anti-D IgG formation"
"During the immediate / early postpartum period after delivering an Rh+ fetus, must Rh- mothers be given anti-D Ig? Yes"
"Hemolytic disease of the newborn is also known as Erythroblastosis fetalis"
"Rh hemolytic disease of the newborn has the potential to occur when a Rh- mother has a Rh+ fetus"
"Assuming RhoGam is not given, the first time a mother is Rh- and delivers a Rh+ fetus, the mother will form what substance? "
"If an Rh- mother with anti-D IgG antibodies has a subsequent pregnancy with an Rh+ fetus, the fetus can develop hydrops fetalis"
"If an Rh- mother with anti-D IgG antibodies has a subsequent pregnancy with an Rh+ fetus and the baby survives to delivery, the newborn can develop Jaundice; which in serious cases can also manifest with Kernicterus"
"ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn has the potential to occur when a Type O mother has a Type A or B fetus"
"Will ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn occur on the first pregnancy? Yes"
"Will Rh hemolytic disease of the newborn occur on the first pregnancy? No"
"ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn presents with mild jaundice in the neonate within 24 hours of birth"
"Newborns that are suffering from ABO hemolytic disease of the newborn can be treated with: Phototherapy Exchange transfusion"
"When HLA typing, the purpose of the Microcytotoxicity test is to test for MHC class I (ex HLA-A, HLA-B)"
"When HLA typing, the purpose of testing for a Mixed lymphocyte reaction is to test for MHC class II (ex HLA-DR)"
"When HLA typing and testing for a Mixed lymphocyte reaction, higher radioactivity signifies lower compatibility"
"Is Treponema pallidum visible with staining? No*"
"Is Borrelia burgdorferi visible with staining? Yes"
"Is Leptospira interrogans visible with staining? No"
"Leptospira interrogans is endemic to tropical regions"
"What is the shape of Leptospira interrogans? Spirochete"
"Which spirochete is described as question mark shaped? Leptospira interrogans"
"Leptospira interrogans is a spirochete found in water contaminated with animal urine"
"Which bacteria is associated with surfers in the tropics? Leptospira interrogans"
"Leptospirosis is associated with fever and conjunctival suffusion::eye"
"Leptospira interrogans classically results in reddening of the eyes without::with or without exudate"
"Weil's disease is a severe form of Leptospira interrogans infection"
"Leptospira interrogans is characterized via a(n) hematogenous spread through the body"
"In Weil's disease, Leptospira interrogans travels through the blood, causing dysfunction in the kidneys and liver"
"In Weil’s disease, Leptospira interrogans travels through the blood, causing dysfunction in the kidneys and liver"
"Which manifestation of Leptospira interrogans can result in azotemia and jaundice? Weil's disease"
"Which spirochete is described as having hook-shaped ends? Leptospira interrogans"
"Which manifestation of Leptospira interrogans can result in myalgias? Leptospirosis"
"Leptospira interrogans is associated with myalgias classically in the calves (gastrocnemius) and lumbar spine"
"Which spirochete is described as having ice-tong ends? Leptospira interrogans"
"What is the treatment of Leptospirosis? Penicillin G"
"What is used for prophylaxis of Leptospirosis? Doxycycline"
"Which manifestation of Leptospira interrogans is associated with flu-like symptoms? Leptospirosis"
"Which blood transfusion reaction is caused by 1) cytokines that are created by WBCs and accumulate during the storage of blood products -or- 2) host antibodies against donor HLA antigens/WBCs? Febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reaction"
"What is the most common hand mass? Ganglion cysts"
"A ganglion cyst is a(n) non-tender::tender/non-tender? cystic swelling most commonly located on the dorsal side of the wrist"
"Ganglion cysts are often found in association and in communication with synovial sheaths on the dorsum of the hand"
"Ganglion cysts are most commonly found at the distal attachment of the extensor carpi radialis brevis (ECRB) muscle"
"Ganglion cysts arise from herniation of dense connective tissue"
"What is the gram stain of Coxiella burnetti? Gram negative"
"Does Coxiella burnetti cause a rash? No!"
"Coxiella burnetti is the bacterium that causes Q fever"
"Coxiella burnetti is obligate intracellular"
"Coxiella burnetti is an obligate intracellular bug that forms spores in animal feces"
"How is Coxiella burnetti transmitted? Aerosol (inhalation of spores)"
"What is the reservoir of Coxiella burnetti? Farm animals (cattle, sheep, goats)"
"Which bacteria is commonly found in cattle/sheep amniotic fluid? Coxiella burnetti"
"Q fever is associated with atypical pneumonia symptoms (cough, headache, fever)"
"Q fever caused by Coxiella burnetti is associated with hepatitis, interstitial pneumonia and culture-negative endocarditis (visceral complications)"
"What is the treatment of Q fever endocarditis? Doxycycline and hydroxychloroquine::2"
"What is the cause of bacterial vaginosis? Gardnerella vaginalis"
"What is the gram stain of Gardnerella vaginosis? Gram-variable"
"Which bacteria has gram-variable staining? Gardnerella vaginalis"
"Alterations in natural vaginal bacterial flora can lead to overgrowth of Gardnerella vaginalis"
"Gray-white discharge from the vagina is significant for Gardnerella vaginalis"
"Gardnerella vaginalis is a bacterial infection that occurs at a pH > 4.5"
"Trichomonas vaginalis is a protozoal infection that occurs at a pH > 4.5"
"Candida albicans is a fungal infection that occurs at pH 3.8 - 4.5 (normal)"
"Gardnerella vaginalis is associated with a positive KOH whiff test"
"Epithelial cells coated with bacteria are classically seen in Gardnerella vaginalis"
"Which type of cells on wet mount signify Gardnerella vaginalis? Clue cells"
"Which bacteria is normal flora of the vagina? Lactobacillus"
"Which bacteria is seen cultured from the vagina below? Gardnerella vaginalis epithelial cell covered with bacteria (clue cell)"
"Treatment of Gardnerella vaginalis includes metronidazole and clindamycin"
"Treatment of Gardnerella vaginalis includes metronidazole and clindamycin"
"Which gram-negative bacteria has a fishy odor? Proteus mirabilis"
"Which gram-variable bacteria has a fishy odor? Gardnerella vaginalis"
"Gardnerella vaginalis is said to have a(n) fishy odor"
"Which bacterium has no cell wall? Mycoplasma pneumoniae"
"Mycoplasma pneumoniae is the only bacteria with cholesterol in its cell membrane"
"Which cause of vaginosis is non-painful? Gardnerella vaginalis"
"What type of pneumonia is caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae? Interstitial (atypical) pneumonia aka walking pneumonia"
"Chest X-ray of a patient with Mycoplasma pneumoniae shows a(n) reticulonodular, patchy infiltrate"
"What is the most common cause of pneumonia in individuals living in close quarters? Mycoplasma pneumoniae"
"What demographic is associated with Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection? Young adults (< 30 y.o.)"
"What culture is used to grow Mycoplasma pneumoniae? Eaton agar"
"How is Mycoplasma pneumoniae transmitted? Inhalation of droplets"
"Mycoplasma pneumoniae is a bacteria associated with IgM cold agglutination of RBCs"
"What is the most specific test for Mycoplasma pneumoniae? PCR"
"The cold serum agglutination test involves IgM cold hemagglutinins and blood group antigen I of human RBCs"
"Treatment of Mycoplasma pneumoniae includes macrolides (azithromycin, erythromycin), doxycycline, and fluoroquinolones (levofloxacin, moxifloxacin)"
"Cold agglutinin disease is associated with painful, blue::color fingers/toes"
"Poliovirus is part of the picornaviridae family"
"What type of virus is poliovirus? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Is Poliovirus enveloped? No (naked)"
"Poliovirus is acid-stable"
"What is the route of transmission of Poliovirus? Fecal-oral"
"Poliovirus replicates in the tonsils of the oropharynx"
"Poliovirus replicates in the peyer's patches of the ileum"
"Which virus replicates in ileal peyer's patches and oropharyngeal tonsils? Poliovirus"
"Poliovirus replication within lymphoid tissue takes 2-3 wks::time"
"Which virus affects LMNs of the anterior horn? Poliovirus"
"Poliovirus causes a(n) asymmetric::symmetric/asymmetric paralysis"
"Poliovirus can cause respiratory insufficiency"
"What is the most common orthopedic disorder in newborns? Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip"
"Poliovirus causes decreased deep tendon reflexes"
"Which virus can cause respiratory insufficiency and decreased DTRs? Poliovirus"
"Poliovirus is a common cause of aseptic (viral) meningitis"
"Which poliovirus vaccine is inactivated/killed? Salk"
"Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip results from abnormal acetabulum development in newborns"
"Which poliovirus vaccine is live, attenuated? Sabin"
"Abnormal prenatal development of the acetabulum is caused by excessive uterine packing (uterine constraint)"
"What is the method of administration of the salk vaccine? Parenteral (injection)"
"Risk factors for Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip include Females, Firstborns, Feet First (breech presentations), and Family History"
"What is the method of administration of the sabin vaccine? Orally"
"Which form of poliovirus vaccine forms IgG antibodies, only? Salk"
"The Barlow and Ortolani Maneuvers are used to diagnose Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip"
"Which form of poliovirus vaccine forms IgG and IgA antibodies? Sabin"
"Which form of poliovirus vaccine is administered in the U.S.? Salk"
"Which form of poliovirus vaccine provides group immunity with person-to-person contact? Sabin"
"Which cause of meningitis can also lead to myalgia and paralysis? Poliovirus"
"Coxsackievirus is part of the picornaviridae family"
"What type of virus is coxsackievirus? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Is Coxsackievirus enveloped? No (naked)"
"What is the route of transmission of Coxsackievirus? Fecal-oral"
"Coxsackie A is a virus that causes hand-foot-and-mouth disease"
"What type of rash is seen in hand-foot-and-mouth disease? Red, vesicular rash"
"Coxsackievirus is a common cause of aseptic (viral) meningitis"
"What are the three most common causes of aseptic meningitis? Poliovirus, coxsackievirus, echovirus (enteroviruses)"
"Coxsackievirus infection commonly occurs during the summer months"
"Coxsackie B is a virus that causes myocarditis which progresses to dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Coxsackie B is a virus that causes Bornholm's disease"
"Bornholm's disease is also known as devil's grip or pleurodynia"
"Bornholm's disease is characterized by sharp pain in the lower chest uni-laterally"
"What are three causes of rash on the palms and soles? 2° syphilis, Rickettsia rickettsii, Coxsackievirus A"
"Coxsackie A is associated with herpangina (mouth blisters)"
"Coxsackie A is associated with acute hemorrhagic conjunctivitis"
"Coxsackie B is associated with hepatitis::liver pathology"
"A Barlow Maneuver is positive if the hip dislocates posteriorly when pressure is applied to adducted and flexed hips"
"Rhinovirus is part of the picornaviridae family"
"What type of virus is Rhinovirus? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Is Rhinovirus enveloped? No (naked)"
"An Ortolani Maneuver is positive if a soft \clunk\\" sound is produced when anterior pressure is applied on the greater trochanters when the hips are placed in a(n) abducted position\""
"Rhinovirus is acid-labile"
"What is the route of transmission of Rhinovirus? Respiratory; Fomites::2"
"What is the most common cause of the common cold? Rhinovirus"
"Rhinovirus is a virus that enters host cells by attaching to ICAM-1"
"Rhinovirus grows best at 33°C::temperature"
"The confirmatory test for Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip is a(n) ultrasound"
"Rhinovirus causes a(n) upper respiratory tract infection"
"Rhinovirus has 113 different serotypes"
"What is the second most common cause of the common cold? Coronavirus"
"What type of viruses are caliciviruses? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Are Caliciviruses enveloped? No (naked)"
"Caliciviruses produce one polypeptide product that is cleaved via viral proteases"
"Caliciviruses replicate in the cytoplasm"
"Norovirus (norwalk virus) is the most common caliciviridae::family of viruses"
"Which virus is associated with outbreaks on cruise ships? Norovirus (norwalk virus)"
"Aside from cruises, Norovirus infection is associated with daycare centers and schools"
"Norovirus is associated with consumption of shellfish (e.g. oysters)"
"What is the most common symptom of Norovirus infection? Watery diarrhea"
"Viral gastroenteritis is most commonly caused by norovirus and rotavirus"
"What type of viruses are togaviruses? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Arboviruses are a class of viruses that have arthropod vectors"
"Any virus that is transmitted by mosquitoes, fleas, or ticks is said to be a(n) arbovirus"
"Arboviruses all cause encephalitis and fever"
"Arboviruses that are also togaviruses include eastern, western, and venezuelan equine encephalitis"
"Arboviruses present with symptoms such as fever, altered mental status, seizures, and cranial nerve palsies"
"Rubella is part of the Matonaviridae* family"
"Which virus is also known as German measles (3-day measles)? Rubella"
"Which matonavirus is a childhood exanthem? Rubella"
"Is Rubella enveloped? Yes"
"Are Togaviruses enveloped? Yes"
"Rubella is a positive sense virus that causes tender postauricular and occipital lymphadenopathy"
"Rubella is a positive sense RNA virus that presents with a rash that starts on the face and moves down-wards"
"Measles (rubeola) is a negative sense RNA virus that presents with a rash that starts on the face and moves down-wards"
"Which RNA virus presents with rash of 3-days duration? Rubella"
"Which matonavirus can travel transplacentally? Rubella"
"Congenital Rubella infection is characterized by a classic triad of cataracts, patent ductus arteriosus, and sensorineural deafness"
"Congenital Rubella is characterized by patent ductus arteriosus and/or pulmonary artery stenosis"
"Congenital Rubella is characterized by cataracts of the eye"
"Congenital Rubella is characterized by sensorineural deafness of the ear"
"Congenital Rubella is characterized by a \blueberry muffin\\" rash\""
"The 'blueberry muffin' rash seen in multiple congenital infections is due to dermal erythropoiesis"
"Which congenital RNA viral infection can present with blueberry muffin rash? Congenital Rubella"
"Which form of Rubella, adult or congenital, presents with cataracts? Congenital"
"Which form of Rubella, adult or congenital, presents with sensorineural deafness? Congenital"
"Which form of Rubella, adult or congenital, presents with valvular pathologies? Congenital"
"Which form of Rubella, adult or congenital, presents with arthritis? Adult"
"What vaccine is available for Rubella? MMR (live, attenuated)"
"The MMR vaccine can be given to HIV+ patients with CD4 counts > 200"
"The MMR vaccine should be avoided in pregnant and immunocompromised patients"
"Togaviruses produce one polypeptide product that is cleaved via viral proteases"
"What demographic should alert you to possible Rubella infection? Patients w/o vaccinations (e.g. immigrants, anti-vaxxers)"
"What is the incubation period of Rubella? 14-21 days"
"Congenital Rubella occurs with infection during the first trimester"
"Congenital CMV occurs with infection during the second trimester"
"Congenital VZV occurs with infection during the first or second trimester"
"What type of virus is coronavirus? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Is Coronavirus enveloped? Yes"
"Coronavirus is a positive RNA virus with a(n) helical shaped capsid"
"Which virus causes SARS? Coronavirus"
"Which virus causes middle east respiratory syndrome (MERS)? Coronavirus"
"Coronavirus is a virus that can cause acute bronchitis, eventually leading to ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome)"
"Where does Coronavirus replicate? Cytoplasm"
"Mesenchyme is the embryonic connective tissue"
"The Mesenchyme gives rise to most connective tissue"
"A mesenchymal tumor is a(n) sarcoma"
"In which weeks of embryogenesis can ultrasound identify gender of the baby? Weeks 15-20"
"Migratory Thrombophlebitis (Trousseau's syndrome) is a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with pancreatic adenocarcinoma"
"Congenital Rubella is characterized by mental retardation"
"Congenital Rubella is characterized by microcephaly of the head"
"Which family of viruses includes influenza? Orthomyxoviridae"
"What type of viruses are orthomyxoviruses? Negative sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Negative sense RNA viruses produce their own RNA polymerase to transcribe into positive sense RNA"
"Most RNA viruses are single-stranded"
"Orthomyxovirus is the only negative RNA virus to replicate in the nucleus"
"RNA viruses usually replicate in the cytoplasm"
"Which RNA virus family is double-stranded? Reoviridae"
"Are Orthomyxoviruses enveloped? Yes"
"How many strains of influenza are there? Three (A, B, C)"
"Orthomyxovirus has 8::# segments"
"The segmented virus families include bunyavirus, orthomyxovirus, arenavirus, and reovirus"
"Antigenic variation of influenza viruses occurs with changes to viral hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA)"
"Influenza viruses are named based on HA and NA types (e.g. H1N1)"
"Antigenic variation can be due to antigenic drift or antigenic shift"
"Antigenic drift occurs when there are point mutations in HA or NA"
"Antigenic drift explains why we need a flu shot each year"
"Antigenic drift is associated with epi-demics"
"Antigenic shift occurs with HA/NA reassortment amongst different species"
"Antigenic drift is associated with epi-demics Antigenic shift is associated with pan-demics"
"Hemagglutinin is a viral envelope protein that binds sialic acid"
"Which envelope protein of Influenza facilitates viral endocytosis into cells? Hemagglutinin"
"Neuraminidase is a viral envelope protein that cleaves the HA-sialic acid interaction"
"Which envelope protein of Influenza facilitates viral spread from cells? Neuraminidase"
"Hemagglutinin (HA) antigens are designated H1, H2, H3, etc."
"Which envelope protein of Influenza determines cell tropism? Hemagglutinin"
"M2 channel proteins are influenza viral proteins that ensure proper intracellular pH for viral uncoating"
"Amantadine and Rimantadine are drugs that inhibit the M2 protein channels of influenza A::strain"
"Which two anti-influenza drugs inhibit the M2 channels? Amantadine; Rimantadine"
"Which two anti-influenza drugs have a high rate of resistance (no longer recommended)? Amantadine; Rimantadine"
"Which strain(s) of influenza are treated with M2 channel blockers (rimantidine, amantadine)? Influenza A"
"Which anti-influenza drug can be used to treat Parkinson's disease? Amantadine"
"Which anti-influenza drug increases dopamine synthesis/release and inhibits reuptake? Amantadine"
"Zanamivir and Oseltamivir are drugs that inhibit neuraminidase of influenza A and B::strain(s)"
"Which two anti-influenza drugs inhibit neuraminidase (NA)? Zanamivir; Oseltamivir"
"Which strain(s) of influenza are treated with neuraminidase inhibitors (zanamivir, oseltamivir)? Influenza A and B"
"Which two anti-influenza drugs inhibit virion release? Zanamivir; Oseltamivir"
"What is the route of transmission of influenza? Respiratory droplets"
"Which influenza vaccine is injected intramuscularly? Inactivated/Killed"
"Which influenza vaccine is administered intranasally? Live, attenuated"
"What is the most common complication of influenza? Secondary bacterial pneumonia"
"Secondary bacterial pneumonia is typically Staph aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, or Strep pneumo superimposed on Influenza"
"What drug is contraindicated in children with viral illness? Aspirin"
"What can result from aspirin use in children with a viral illness? Reye syndrome"
"Reye syndrome can present with liver failure and encephalitis"
"In Reye syndrome, aspirin can act as a(n) uncoupling agent in oxidative phosphorylation"
"CSF analysis in Guillain-Barré syndrome will reveal albuminocytologic dissociation"
"Influenza is associated with Guillain-Barré::autoimmune syndrome"
"Boxer's fracture are a common fracture caused by a direct blow with a(n) closed fist to an object"
"Boxer's Fractures are caused by a fracture of the metacarpal neck"
"Boxer's Fractures are most commonly seen in the 4th and 5th metacarpal necks"
"Neuraminidase is a viral envelope protein that allows for mature virion release"
"Which two anti-influenza drugs inhibit viral uncoating? Amantadine and Rimantadine"
"If a patient presents with an undulating fever, what antimicrobial can be used to treat the organism in question? Doxycycline"
"What class of bacterial genetics inhibitors can be used to treat anthrax? Fluoroquinolones"
"Does TMP-SMX have activity against MRSA? Yes"
"You can remember the treatment for Nocardia vs Actinomyces in a SNAP: (Sulfonamides - Nocardia, Actinomyces - Penicillin)"
"Can Clindamycin be used to treat Gardnerella Vaginalis? Yes"
"A patient has recently been scratched by a cat and develops a febrile lymphadenitis, what two classes of drugs can you use? Tetracyclines and Macrolides"
"The triple therapy regimen for Helicobacter Pylori can be remembered with the mnemonic: Antibiotics Cure Pylori Amoxicillin Clarithromycin Proton Pump Inhibitor"
"Erythromycin can be used to treat Neonatal Conjunctivitis caused by what two microbes? Neisseria Gonorrhae, Chlamydophila Trachomatis"
"A patient develops severe lymphadenopathy, fever, and a painful throat; upon examination of the throat you notice grayish-white membranes - what bacterial protein synthesis inhibitor can be used to treat this condition? Erythromycin"
"Before a patient gets a C-section, what combination of drugs should be given prophylactically? Gentamicin + Clindamycin"
"A teenage girl has recently gotten an IUD, but comes back to your office complaining of pelvic pain and on pelvic exam you notice she has uterine bleeding and the tissue looks slightly necrotic in a focal area - what medications can you prescribe? Gentamicin + Clindamicin"
"Streptomycin can be also used to treat what zoonotic infection? Tularemia"
"Which HIV gene encodes for the gp120 and gp41 surface glycoproteins? env"
"Which HIV gene encodes for the virion p24 (Capsid) and p17 (Matrix) core proteins? gag"
"Which HIV gene encodes Reverse Transcriptase, Aspartate Protease, and Integrase pol"
"In the elbow there are three joints, these being: - Radiocapitellar Joint - Ulnohumeral Joint - Proximal Radioulnar Joint"
"The proximal radioulnar joint is stabilized by the annular ligament"
"Radial Head Subluxation is caused when there is subluxation of the radial head relative to the radiocapitellar joint"
"Radial Head Subluxation is also known by the name \Nursemaids Elbow\\"\""
"Subluxation of the radial head allows the annular ligament to slip over and into the radiocapitellar joint"
"Radial Head Subluxation impinges the deep radial nerve, causing weakness of most of the posterior forearm extensors"
"Do patients with Radial Head Subluxation present with Wrist Drop? No"
"Do patients with Radial Head Subluxation present with sensory loss over the dorsal hand / wrist? No"
"Radial head subluxation is the most common elbow injury in those under 5 years of age"
"Rhabdovirus is the virus that causes rabies"
"What type of virus is rhabdovirus? Negative sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Is Rhabdovirus enveloped? Yes"
"Which virus is said to be 'bullet-shaped'? Rabies virus (rhabdovirus)"
"Which virus is displayed below? Rhabdovirus (rabies) bullet-shaped"
"Rhabdovirus has a(n) helical capsid"
"Which animal is the most common carrier of rabies virus (rhabdovirus) in the United States? Bats"
"Which animal is the most common carrier of rabies virus (rhabdovirus) in developing countries? Dogs"
"Along with Bats, Rabies virus is also commonly carried by skunks in the western U.S."
"Along with Bats, Rabies virus is also commonly carried by raccoons and foxes in the eastern U.S."
"Rabies virus binds to nicotinic ACh receptors in the post-synaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction"
"Rabies virus binds to nicotinic ACh receptors in the post-synaptic membrane of the neuromuscular junction"
"Infection of Rabies virus occurs within striated muscle cells"
"What is the incubation period of rabies virus? Weeks to months"
"Incubation of Rabies virus takes longer when infection occurs in the lower extremities"
"After motor endplate infection, Rabies virus crosses the synaptic cleft by binding neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAMs), entering neurons"
"Rabies virus travels retro-grade along peripheral nerves"
"Replication of Rabies virus occurs within striated muscle and motor neuronal cells"
"Rabies virus travels retrograde to the dorsal root ganglia before spreading to the CNS"
"Rabies virus replication occurs in eosino-philic cytoplasmic inclusions called Negri bodies"
"Negri bodies of Rabies virus can be found in the cytoplasm of the hippocampal pyramidal cells and cerebellar purkinje cells"
"Negri bodies of Rabies virus can be found in the cytoplasm of the hippocampal pyramidal cells and cerebellar purkinje cells"
"Which two areas of the CNS are rabies virus Negri bodies found? Hippocampus (pyramidal cells); Cerebellum (Purkinje cells)"
"Rabies virus can spread to the peripheral neurons and enter salivary glands"
"Negri bodies (rabies virus) are found within the cytoplasm::cell location"
"Neurologic manifestations of Rabies virus include hydro-phobia and aero-phobia, both pathognomonic signs"
"Rabies virus can present with pharyngeal muscle spasms, causing dysphagia"
"Which virus/viral family will have cytoplasmic, eosinophilic inclusions within neuronal cells? Rabies virus Negri bodies"
"Which virus/viral family will have nuclear, eosinophilic inclusions within cells? Herpesviridae family Cowdry bodies"
"Treatment of Rabies virus includes wound cleaning"
"Treatment of Rabies virus includes administration of killed rabies vaccine (active immunization) and rabies immunoglobulin (passive immunization)"
"Treatment of Rabies virus is known as passive-active immunity"
"Transmission of rabies virus occurs via animal bites or aerosol transmission"
"Osgood-Schlatter Disease is an overuse injury caused by inflammation of the apophysis located on the Tibial Tuberosity"
"Osgood-Schlatter Disease is commonly seen in patients after their pubertal growth spurt"
"An apophysis is a(n) secondary ossification center which serves as an attachment for a tendon"
"In Osgood Schlatter, healed microavulsions can be noted on physical exam by the presence of a pronounced/enlarged tibial tubercle"
"Osgood-Schlatter Disease is commonly seen in which demographic? Childhood athletes"
"In patients with Osgood-Schlatter Disease, patients report pain on resisted knee extension"
"Zika virus is from the flaviviridae family"
"Zika virus is commonly transmitted by the Aedes mosquito vector"
"Zika virus can cause fever, rash and conjunctivitis in 20% of cases"
"Congenital transmission of Zika virus can result in microcephaly or miscarriages"
"In addition to vector-borne transmission, how can Zika virus be transmitted? Sexual; Vertical (transplacentally)::2"
"Outbreaks of Zika virus are more common in tropical climates"
"Diagnosis of Zika virus is made via RT-PCR or serology"
"What type of viruses are Filoviruses? Negative sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Filoviruses have a(n) helical capsid"
"Are Filoviruses enveloped? Yes"
"Ebola and Marburg virus both belong to the filoviridae family"
"Filoviruses (ebola, marburg) cause petechial rash and fever"
"Filoviruses (ebola, marburg) cause acute hemorrhagic fever that can progress to end-organ failure"
"Death from Filoviruses (ebola, marburg) results from hemorrhagic (hypovolemic) shock"
"Filoviruses (ebola, marburg) may be transmitted via primates (apes) or bats"
"What is the reservoir of ebola and marburg virus (filoviruses)? Bats"
"Risk factors for Ebola and Marburg virus infection include recent travel to Africa"
"Ebola virus is diagnosed via RT-PCR of blood or other bodily fluids"
"Which filovirus can result in DIC? Ebola"
"The segmented virus families include bunyavirus, orthomyxovirus, arenavirus, and reovirus"
"What type of viruses are Bunyaviruses? Negative sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Are Bunyaviruses enveloped? Yes"
"Bunyaviruses are a class of RNA viruses that obtain their envelope from host cell's golgi apparatus (golgi body complex)"
"Bunyaviruses have 3::# circular segments"
"Most of the Bunyaviruses are also arboviruses"
"Which bunyavirus is also a robovirus? Hantavirus (Sin nombre)"
"What is the reservoir for Hantavirus (Sin nombre)? Deer mouse::specific"
"Hantavirus (Sin nombre) is transmitted through rodent urine/feces"
"Which virus causes hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS)? Hantavirus (sin nombre)"
"Which virus causes cardiopulmonary syndrome (HCPS)? Hantavirus (sin nombre)"
"Hantavirus can result in pulmonary capillary leak"
"Pulmonary capillary leak of the virus Hantavirus (sin nombre) is radiographically similar to ARDS (acute respiratory distress syndrome)"
"Hantavirus is a virus that causes pre-renal azotemia"
"Hantavirus (sin nombre) results in capillary leak, causing hypotension and ultimately renal failure"
"Hantavirus can result in hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome"
"Hantavirus (Sin nombre) belongs to the bunyaviridae family"
"Rift valley fever belongs to the bunyaviridae family"
"California encephalitis belongs to the bunyaviridae family"
"Bunyaviruses that are also arboviruses include California encephalitis, Rift Valley Fever, Sandfly fever, and Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever"
"Manifestations of California encephalitis and Rift Valley Fever include seizures and encephalitis"
"California encephalitis is transmitted via the Aedes mosquito vector"
"Rift Valley Fever is transmitted via the Aedes mosquito vector"
"Legg-Calvé-Perthes (LCP) and Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphyses (SCFE) are both causes of Avascular Necrosis of the Femoral Head"
"Which of the following usually occurs in children between 5-7 years old? Legg-Calvé-Perthes"
"Which group of viruses are ambisense? Arenaviruses"
"Which group of viruses have a single strand of RNA that is both positive and negative (ambisense)? Arenaviruses"
"Are Arenaviruses enveloped? Yes"
"Arenaviruses are classified as *negative sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc. viruses"
"Arenavirus has a(n) helical capsid"
"The three negative RNA virus families with helical capsids include filovirus, rhabdovirus, and arenavirus"
"The segmented virus families include bunyavirus, orthomyxovirus, arenavirus, and reovirus"
"Arenaviruses have 2::# circular segments"
"Which viruses have a grainy (sand) appearance on electron microscopy? Arenaviruses"
"The grainy particles within Arenaviruses on microscopy are host cell ribosomes"
"What is the reservoir of Arenaviruses? Rodents (mice, hamsters)"
"The arenaviruses include lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and lassa fever"
"The arenaviruses include lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) and lassa fever"
"Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) presents with fever and meningoencephalitis"
"Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) can be inactivated by heat and irradiation"
"Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) can be inactivated by heat and irradiation"
"Lassa fever is associated with fever and encephalitis"
"Lassa fever is endemic to West Africa"
"The segmented virus families include bunyavirus, orthomyxovirus, arenavirus, and reovirus"
"What type of viruses are Reoviruses? Double-stranded RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Are Reoviruses enveloped? No (naked)"
"Reoviruses have 10 - 12::# segments"
"Reoviruses include rotavirus and coltivirus"
"Reoviruses include rotavirus and coltivirus"
"What is the transmission of rotavirus? Fecal-oral"
"What is the most common symptom of rotavirus? Watery diarrhea"
"Rotavirus contains the NSP4 enterotoxin, causing watery diarrhea"
"What is a complication of rotavirus diarrhea? Dehydration"
"Rotavirus causes villous destruction and atrophy, resulting in decreased serum Na+ and K+"
"The NSP4 enterotoxin of rotavirus increases Cl- permeability"
"Rotavirus infection commonly occurs during the winter months"
"What demographic is at high risk of rotavirus infection? Children"
"What is the most common cause of severe diarrhea in children? Rotavirus"
"Which locations is rotavirus commonly found? Kindergartens and Daycares"
"Which two causes of viral gastroenteritis are associated with daycares and kindergartens? Rotavirus and Norovirus"
"Coltivirus is also known as Colorado tick virus"
"Which virus is said to be wheel-shaped? Rotavirus"
"Which cause of viral gastroenteritis does the CDC recommend vaccination against? Rotavirus"
"Which form of spina bifida is associated with herniation of only neural tissue through the bony defect? Myeloschisis (Rachischisis)"
"Rotavirus has a(n) live, attenuated vaccine that is administered orally"
"Intussusception is associated with the rotavirus vaccine due to enlargement of peyer's patches which act as a lead point"
"Rotavirus gastroenteritis can result in a secondary lactase deficiency"
"Symptoms of Coltivirus (Colorado tick virus) include fevers, vomiting, and myalgia"
"What is the treatment for rotavirus? Oral rehydration therapy"
"When should the first rotavirus vaccination be given? within first 3 months of birth"
"In the most common sprain of the Anterior Inferior Tibiofibular Ligament, external rotation forces the Talus to rotate laterally and push the Fibula away from the Tibia"
"Heyde syndrome is a situation where a severely calcific & stenotic aortic valve causes increased rupture of angiodysplasias"
"In Heyde syndrome, the stenotic aortic valve causes passing vWF to uncoil, making it available to be degraded by ADAMTS13 in the vasculature"
"Without active vWF, intestinal angiodysplasias will rupture much more easily, resulting in GI bleeding and Iron Deficiency Anemia"
"Patients with Xeroderma Pigmentosum often present with freckled and dry skin, extreme sunlight sensitivity, and corneal ulcers"
"Patients with xeroderma pigmentosum are at risk for which type/s of skin cancer? All :("
"Patients with Xeroderma Pigmentosum cannot repair Thymidine Dimers formed as a result of UV-B exposure"
"Which of the following usually occurs in children between 12-14 years old? Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphyses"
"Which of the following is more associated with obesity? Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphyses"
"Which of the following is associated with an insidious onset of hip pain? Legg-Calvé-Perthes"
"What type of virus is HHV-6? Double-stranded DNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"HHV-6 is part of the herpesviridae family"
"Which herpesviruses can cause roseola? HHV-6; HHV-7"
"Which of the following is associated with acute hip/knee pain and altered gait? Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis"
"HHV-6 infects CD4+ T cells"
"Which of the following occurs in males in a 4:1 ratio? Legg-Calvé-Perthes"
"In Legg-Calvé-Perthes, there is a(n) idiopathic mechanism of obstruction of blood to the femoral head"
"Which herpesvirus infects CD4+ T cells? HHV-6"
"The fever of Roseola lasts 3 - 5 days::duration"
"Roseola is the most common cause of febrile seizures in children"
"In Slipped-Capital Femoral Epiphysis, increased axial force on the femoral head results in the femoral epiphysis displacing relative to femoral neck"
"Which herpesvirus is the most common cause of roseola? HHV-6"
"What demographic is at risk of roseola? Children 6 - 24 months old::specific"
"In Legg-Calvé-Perthes, will you often observe pathology on the initial x-ray? No"
"The rash of roseola infection develops after the fever::fever/rash"
"Roseola is a DNA virus that presents with a rash that starts on the neck/trunk and moves down-wards"
"Does the rash of Roseola affect the face? No"
"In Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis will you often observe pathology on the initial x-ray? Yes"
"Does the rash of Rubella affect the face? Yes"
"Does the rash of Rubeola (measles) affect the face? Yes"
"Which of the following is associated with development of Osteoarthritis? Legg-Calvé-Perthes"
"Roseola affects children 6 - 24 months old"
"Which of the following is associated with hypothyroidism as a predisposing condition? Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis"
"Which of the following is self-limited (~2-3 years)? Legg-Calvé-Perthes"
"Which of the following requires surgery? Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis"
"What is the treatment for Roseola? Supportive (infection is self-limiting)"
"Which childhood exanthem is known as first disease? Rubeola (measles)"
"Which childhood exanthem is known as fifth disease? Erythema infectiosum (Parvo B19)"
"Which childhood exanthem is known as sixth disease? Roseola"
"Which childhood exanthem (rash) arises from herpesviruses? Roseola (exanthem subitum)"
"HHV-8 causes Kaposi Sarcoma"
"What type of virus is HHV-8? Double-stranded DNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"HHV-8 is part of the herpesviridae family"
"What is the most common cancer in AIDS patients? Kaposi sarcoma"
"HHV-8 infection is common in immunocompromised (AIDS) patients"
"What is the initial presentation of Kaposi sarcoma? Cutaneous disease"
"Kaposi sarcoma presents with violaceous lesions on the lower extremities, face (especially the nose), and oral mucosa"
"HHV-8 induces VEGF::signal, resulting in proliferation of vascular endothelial cells"
"HHV-8 inactivates the Rb tumor suppressor protein"
"The Rb tumor suppressor protein is located on chromosome 13"
"What viral manifestation is seen below? Kaposi sarcoma (HHV-8)"
"Which bacterial manifestation can present similarly to Kaposi sarcoma? Bacillary angiomatosis (Bartonella henselae)"
"Lesions of Kaposi sarcoma may be seen on endoscopic examination of the GI tract"
"Where do the lesions of Kaposi sarcoma most commonly occur? Hard palate of mouth"
"HHV-8 is associated with primary effusion lymphoma aka B-cell lymphoma"
"HHV-8 has a higher incidence in Russian or Mediterranean males, as well as African populations"
"Is the African form of Kaposi sarcoma associated with immunodeficiency? No"
"Which recombinant cytokine can be used to treat Kaposi sarcoma? IFN-α"
"Which cutaneous manifestation, Kaposi sarcoma or Bacillary angiomatosis, is associated with lymphocytic infiltrate? Kaposi sarcoma"
"Which cutaneous manifestation, Kaposi sarcoma or Bacillary angiomatosis, is associated with neutrophilic infiltrate? Bacillary angiomatosis"
"Primary effusion lymphoma is also known as body cavity based lymphoma and is a(n) B-cell lymphoma"
"Diffuse Axonal Injury is caused by traumatic shearing forces during rapid acceleration and/or deceleration of the brain"
"Diffuse Axonal Injury often results in coma"
"Depending on the severity of diffuse axonal injury, patients may present with motor posturing"
"The red nucleus is located in the rostral midbrain"
"In cases of severe neuronal damage (ex. herniation / diffuse axonal injury) above the red nucleus, patients can present with decorticate motor posturing"
"Comatose patients who present with flexed upper extremities and extended lower extremities are said to be in a state of Decorticate motor posturing"
"In cases of severe neuronal damage (ex. herniation / diffuse axonal injury) below the red nucleus, patients can present with decerebrate motor posturing"
"Comatose patients who present with extended upper extremities and extended lower extremities are said to be in a state of decerebrate motor posturing"
"On imaging, patients with Diffuse Axonal Injury will show multiple punctate hemorrhages at grey-white matter junctions"
"The rash of Roseola is said to have a red, \lacy\\" appearance\""
"Roseola is also known as exanthema subitum"
"What type of viruses are polyomaviruses? Double-stranded DNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc."
"Are Polyomaviruses enveloped? No (naked)"
"Polyomaviruses include JC (John Cunningham) and BK virus"
"Polyomaviruses have circular::circular/linear DNA genomes"
"JC virus causes progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) in the immunocompromised"
"JC virus presents when CD4+ count is < 200 or with immunosuppressants"
"JC virus presents in immunocompromised (HIV/AIDS) patients"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy presents with non-enhancing::enhancing/non-enhancing brain lesions in white matter"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy results in death of oligodendrocytes in the CNS"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy presents with many::one/many lesion(s)"
"Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy presents with normal ICP"
"Which DNA viruses are ubiquitous in humans? Polyomaviruses (JC, BK)"
"Polyomavirus (JC, BK) transmission occurs via respiratory exposure during childhood"
"What drugs increase risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy? Natalizumab; Rituximab::2"
"Polyomaviruses (JC, BK) are hypothesized to seed the kidney resulting in a clinically latent infection"
"Which polyomavirus can cause nephropathy? BK virus"
"BK virus is a virus associated with hemorrhagic cystitis in kidney and bone marrow transplant patients"
"BK virus can result in ureteral stenosis"
"Hemorrhagic cystitis can present with fever and gross hematuria"
"Does the rash of Erythema infectiosum (parvovirus) affect the face? Yes"
"Is Parvovirus B19 enveloped? No (naked)"
"Parvovirus B19 is the smallest::size DNA virus"
"What type of virus is parvovirus B19? Single-stranded DNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Parvovirus B19 is the only single-stranded DNA virus"
"Parvovirus B19 is transmitted via respiratory droplets most often"
"Besides respiratory droplets, Parvovirus B19 can be transmitted vertically (transplacentally) and through blood products (transfusions, transplants)"
"Which virus causes slapped-cheek fever? Parvovirus B19"
"Which virus causes erythema infectiosum? Parvovirus B19"
"Erythema infectiosum (parvovirus B19) is a DNA virus that presents with a rash that starts on the face and moves down-wards"
"The fever of Erythema infectiosum (parvovirus) is mild::severity"
"The fever of Roseola is very high (> 104)::severity"
"The rash of erythema infectiosum develops after the fever::fever/rash"
"Parvovirus B19 infection in adults can result in small-joint arthritis, myocarditis, and edema"
"Parvovirus B19 commonly causes aplastic crisis in patients with sickle cell, thalassemias, and hereditary spherocytosis"
"Parvovirus B19 infection during the 1st and 2nd trimester(s) can result in hydrops fetalis"
"The rash of Erythema infectiosum is said to have a red, \lacy\\" appearance\""
"Which DNA virus preferentially infects erythroid progenitors? Parvovirus B19"
"Parvovirus B19 binds P blood group antigen, expressed in high levels by erythroid progenitor cells"
"CMV is a virus that binds to cellular integrins (heparan sulfate)"
"What is the treatment of Parvovirus B19 in the immuno-competent? Thoughts and prayers"
"What is the treatment of Parvovirus B19 in the immuno-compromised? IVIG and RBC transfusion::2"
"Adenovirus is the most common cause of infection of the tonsils and adenoids::2"
"Is Adenovirus enveloped? No (naked)"
"Transmission of Adenovirus includes respiratory droplets, fecal-oral route, or direct contact"
"Transmission of Adenovirus includes respiratory droplets, fecal-oral route, or direct contact"
"Transmission of Adenovirus includes respiratory droplets, fecal-oral route, or direct contact"
"Demographics affected by Adenovirus include children, military recruits, and swimmers in public pools"
"Demographics affected by Adenovirus include children, military recruits, and swimmers in public pools"
"Adenovirus has a(n) linear::linear/circular DNA genome"
"What is a genitourinary complication of Adenovirus? Hemorrhagic cystitis"
"Which linear DNA virus causes hemorrhagic cystitis? Adenovirus"
"Which circular DNA virus causes hemorrhagic cystitis? BK virus"
"Adenovirus commonly causes viral conjunctivitis of the eye"
"Adenovirus vaccine is commonly reserved for military recruits::demographic"
"What type of vaccine is available for Adenovirus? Live vaccine"
"What are the two most common causes of bacterial conjunctivitis? Strep pneumo; H. influenzae"
"Adenovirus often presents as the common cold: pharyngitis, coryza, and cough"
"Adenovirus can result in viral gastroenteritis and ultimately intussusception of the bowel"
"Adenovirus can bind cells via hemagglutinin"
"Adenovirus will enter and lyse mucosal cells"
"Diagnosis of Adenovirus is made via serology or cell culture"
"CMV infection during the 1st trimester(s) can result in hydrops fetalis"
"Homologous Recombination occurs after::before/after? S phase of the cell cycle, using a(n) sister chromatid as a template"
"In Homologous Recombination, dsDNA breaks are recognized by the ATM protein and the FA Core Complex, which activate BRCA1/2 to recruit enzymes to repair the break"
"Homologous Recombination is defective in breast/ovarian cancers with BRCA1/2 mutations"
"Is homologous recombination error prone? No"
"Nonhomologous End Joining (NHEJ) occurs before::before/after? S phase of the cell cycle"
"In Nonhomologous End Joining (NHEJ), dsDNA breaks are recognized by ATM, recruiting the MRN complex which then recruits the Artemis protein and various others to help repair the damage"
"Is Nonhomologous End Joining error prone? Yes"
"Nonhomologous End Joining is defective in SCID and Ataxia Telangiectasia"
"Developmental Dysplasia of the Hip can be treated with a Pavlik Harness, which keeps the hips flexed and abducted"
"Manifestations of scarlet fever include fever, sore throat, circumoral pallor, \sandpaper\\" rash"
"EBV is associated with Post-tranplant Lymphoproliferative Disease"
"Post-transplant Lymphoproliferative Disease (PTLD) is the most common malignancy complicating solid organ transplantation*"
"PTLD has a variety of symptoms; ranging from symptoms that resemble mononucleosis to malignancy induced dysfunction of the transplanted organ"
"PTLD most commonly occurs in what age group? Children"
"What movement disorder is associated with Iron Deficiency and Chronic Kidney Disease? Restless Leg Syndrome"
"Symptoms of Restless Legs Syndrome typically worsen or only occur during the night-time"
"Symptoms of Restless Legs Syndrome are partially or totally relieved by movement"
"Restless Leg Syndrome is characterized by unpleasant sensations in the legs, and an uncontrollable urge to move when at rest"
"A leukemoid reaction is a severe elevation in WBC, typically >50,000 cells/mm3"
"A GI infection causing bacteria that can cause a Leukemoid Reaction is Clostridioides difficile"
"The protein S-100 is found in cells of neural crest lineage (ex. schwann cells, melanocytes, langerhans cells)"
"The intermediate filament Cytokeratin is found in Epithelial cells"
"The intermediate filament Vimentin is found in mesenchymal tissue"
"The intermediate filament Desmin is found in muscle cells"
"The intermediate filament Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein (GFAP) is found in neuroglial cells (ex. astrocytes, Schwann cells, oligodendrocytes)"
"The intermediate filament Neurofilament is found in neurons"
"The Peroxisome is a cytosolic membrane involved in the β-oxidation of Very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA)"
"The Peroxisome is unique in that it performs α-oxidation to break down Phytanic Acid"
"Which cellular organelle is responsible for catabolism of branched-chain fatty acids, amino acids, and ethanol? Peroxisome"
"Which cellular organelle is responsible for the synthesis of cholesterol and bile acids? Peroxisome"
"What cellular organelle is responsible for synthesizing Plasmalogens? Peroxisome"
"Zellweger Syndrome is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance leukodystrophy caused by defective peroxisome biogenesis"
"Zellweger syndrome is a result of mutations in PEX genes that encode for peroxins, which are required for normal assembly of peroxisomes"
"Patients with Zellweger Syndrome present with a profound hypotonia, seizures, and hepatomegaly"
"Patients with Zellweger Syndrome often have craniofacial::structural abnormalities"
"Patients with Zellweger Syndrome often die at a(n) early age"
"Refsum disease is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance metabolic disorder caused by defective α-oxidation"
"Patients with Refsum disease have scaly skin and shortening of the 4th toe"
"Patients with Refsum Disease can have various ophthalmological problems; including cataracts and night blindness"
"Patients with Refsum disease can present with neurological symptoms; such as issues with balance (ataxia), additionally patients nearly universally report a profound loss of smell (anosmia)"
"Patients with Refsum Disease can have skeletal and craniofacial dysmorphism due to epiphyseal dysplasia"
"Patients with Refsum disease do not die early as they can be treated with a(n) phytanic acid restricted diet and plasmapheresis"
"Seborrheic dermatitis is a common, chronic inflammatory disease that presents with a flaky, scaling, rash involving the scalp and eyebrows"
"When Seborrheic Dermatitis is seen in infants, it is known as \Cradle Cap\\"\""
"When seborrheic dermatitis is seen in adults, this most commonly presents as dandruff"
"Seborrheic dermatitis is caused by oversecretion of the sebaceous glands due to a hypersensitivity reaction to Malassezia spp."
"Are sebaceous glands inflamed in Seborrheic Dermatitis? No"
"Seborrheic Dermatitis is more severe in patients with neurological disease, most notably Parkinsons Disease"
"Seborrheic dermatitis is typically treated with low-potency topical steroids or a(n) selenium-based shampoo"
"Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy is a mitochondrial disorder caused primarily by a degeneration of retinal ganglion cells of the optic nerve"
"Patients with Leber hereditary optic neuropathy develop a subacute bilateral and progressive loss of central vision"
"Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy most often presents when patients are teenagers"
"When performing Immunohistochemistry; TRAP can be used to identify Hairy Cell Leukemia"
"Hereditary angioedema presents in childhood with recurrent episodes of swelling without::with or without urticaria"
"Death from hereditary angioedema is usually due to Airway Swelling"
"IPEX syndrome is associated with a variety of dermatological findings, but in particular patients present with dermatitis, nail dystrophy, and other autoimmune dermatologic conditions (especially autoimmune alopecia)"
"Which nucleus of the Hypothalamus is responsible for both thermoregulation and sexual behavior? Preoptic Nucleus"
"The preoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus is responsible for releasing the hormone GnRH"
"De Quervain Tenosynovitis is most commonly associated with patients who are new mothers (\Mother's Wrist\\") and patients who type on small handheld devices (\\"Texting Thumb\\")\""
"A germline P53 mutation predisposes you to what tumor syndrome? Li-Fraumeni (SBLA) Syndrome"
"Li-Fraumeni Syndrome is an auto-dominant TP53 mutation also known as \SBLA\\" Syndrome"
"Mutations in CDK4 can cause Melanoma due to a resultant amplification of the proteins activity"
"Do women's cells undergoing hyperplasia maintain a 1:1 ratio of G6PD isoforms? Yes"
"Do women's cells undergoing Neoplasia maintain a 1:1 ratio of G6PD isoforms? No"
"Both G6PD and the Androgen Receptor are located on which chromosome? X Chromosome"
"Tumors are classified as either benign or malignant"
"Carcinoma implies epithelial origin, whereas Sarcoma denotes mesenchymal origin"
"Is a Hamartoma neoplastic? No"
"A Hamartoma is a disorganized overgrowth of tissues in a(n) native location"
"Is a Choristoma neoplastic? No"
"A Choristoma is normal tissue in a(n) foreign location"
"Tumors of Smooth Muscle are known as Leiomyomas when benign and Leiomyosarcomas when malignant"
"Tumors of Striated Muscle are known as Rhabdomyoma when benign and Rhabdomyosarcoma when malignant"
"Tumors of Connective Tissue are known as Fibromas when benign and Fibrosarcomas when malignant"
"Tumors of Bone are known as Osteomas when benign and Osteosarcomas when malignant"
"Tumors of Melanocytes are known as a(n) Nevus (Mole) when benign and a(n) Melanoma when malignant"
"In the United States, cancer is the second leading cause of death in which of the following age groups? "
"What is the most common cancer overall in the United States? Skin cancer"
"Regarding the incidence of the three main types of skin cancer in the United States, Basal > Squamous >> Melanoma"
"Excluding skin cancer, which of the listed three demographics count the incidence of the following cancers as their top 3 most common? Men::Men, Women, or Children (age 0-14)?"
"Excluding skin cancer, which of the listed three demographics count the incidence of the following cancers as their top 3 most common in the United States? Women::Men, Women, or Children (age 0-14)?"
"Excluding skin cancer, which of the listed three demographics count the incidence of the following cancers as their top 3 most common in the United States? Children::Men, Women, or Children (age 0-14)?"
"Incidence of lung cancer in the United States has decreased in men::sex, but has only since the 2000's started to decrease in women::sex"
"Of the top 3 most fatal cancers in the United States, lung cancer is ranked 2nd for incidence and 1st for mortality"
"Which of the listed three demographics count the mortality of the following cancers as their top 3 most fatal in the United States? Women::Men, Women, or Children (age 0-14)?"
"Which of the listed three demographics count the mortality of the following cancers as their top 3 most fatal in the United States? Children (age 0-14)::Men, Women, or Children (age 0-14)?"
"The two goals of cancer screening are: (1) To catch dysplasia before it becomes carcinoma (2) To detect carcinoma before clinical symptoms arise"
"One use of Mammography as a screening tool is to detect invasive carcinoma before it becomes clinically palpable"
"One use of the Hemoccult test and Colonoscopy as screening tools is to detect colonic carcinoma before it spreads"
"Cancers that are detected late by screening tend to have a(n) poor prognosis"
"Chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis can result from congenital genetic defects in IL-17 or its receptor"
"Which oncogenic microbe is associated with the following cancers?: H. Pylori Gastric Adenocarcinoma MALT Lymphoma"
"Which oncogenic microbe is associated with the following cancers?: Clonorchis Sinesis Cholangiocarcinoma"
"Which oncogenic microbe is associated with the following cancers?: Schistosoma Haematobium Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder"
"Patients get exposed to Aflatoxins produced by Aspergillus by way of eating improperly stored grains and nuts"
"Chronic exposure to Aflatoxins may cause cancer by causing a(n) G:C --> T:A transversion in codon 249 of the TP53 gene"
"Chronic exposure to Arsenic may cause cancer by metabolites (ex. Dimethyl-Arsenic) inhibiting zinc finger motifs in Base-Excision Repair and Nucleotide-Excision Repair enzymes"
"Exposure to carcinogenic Asbestos is most commonly seen in: - construction workers - shipyard workers - plumbers"
"Asbestos acts as a carcinogen by physically destroying cellular chromosomes"
"DCC gene is a tumor suppressor gene, and thus inactivating mutations are associated with colon cancer"
"Prematurity and low-birth weight are major risk factors for Necrotizing Enterocolitis::which congenital GI disorder?"
"Cigarette Smoke contains a wide variety of carcinogenic compounds, with the most carcinogenic being Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons"
"Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAH) cause carcinogenesis through their metabolites forming DNA adducts"
"2-Naphthylamine is a carcinogenic aromatic amine found in cigarette smoke associated with Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder::cancer type"
"What country consumes a large amount of smoked meats in their diet, resulting high rates of intestinal gastric cancer? Japan"
"Patients get chronically exposed to Vinyl Chloride if they manufacture PVC"
"Benzidine is a carcinogenic aromatic amine found in textile dyes associated with Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder::type of cancer"
"Patients who get chronically exposed to Nickle, Chromium, Beryllium, or Silica are at risk for what cancer? Lung Cancer"
"Chronic exposure to Beryllium can occur with patients who work in the aerospace industry, in electronics manufacturing, or with nuclear reactors"
"Chronic exposure to Nickel can occur with patients who work with stainless-steel arc welding, or in the production of batteries or ceramics"
"Chronic exposure to Chromium can occur with patients who work with metallurgy, dye and pigment manufacturing, wood preservatives"
"Patients typically get exposed to Ionizing radiation via nuclear reactor accidents or radiotherapy"
"Patients typically get exposed to Non-Ionizing radiation via exposure to the sunlight"
"Mutations in MYCL1 can cause Small Cell Lung Carcinoma due to a resultant amplification of the transcription factors activity (nuclear regulator)"
"Mutations in MYCN can cause Neuroblastoma due to a resultant amplification of the transcription factors activity (nuclear regulator)"
"Mutations in c-Myc can cause Burkitt Lymphoma via a t(8;14) translocation to the Ig Heavy Chain locus"
"Carcinogens are agents that damage cellular DNA of stem cells"
"Posterior urethral valves may be diagnosed prenatally by a(n) thick walled bladder on ultrasound"
"Newborn males with posterior urethral valves may have a(n) midline mass and bilateral hydronephrosis"
"The most common cause of bladder outlet obstruction in male infants is posterior urethral valves"
"Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis can be seen after infection by chickenpox / measles, or the rabies / small pox vaccines"
"Hematopoetic Stem Cells, as well as Interstitial Cells of Cajal, Mast Cells, and Melanocytes all express the c-Kit receptor"
"Translocations of the Abl proto-oncogene with the Breakpoint Cluster Region (BCR) on chromosome 22 are associated with: - Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia - adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia"
"Mutations in which proto-oncogene can lead to Colon Cancer, Non-Small Cell Lung Adenocarcinoma, and Pancreatic Cancer? KRAS"
"The RET proto-oncogene is expressed by cells of neural crest lineage, and activating mutations are seen in MEN II syndromes, specifically medullary carcinoma of the thyroid"
"Mutations that cause overexpression of the PDGFB proto-oncogene can precipitate development of an Astrocytoma by creating a(n) autocrine loop"
"Mutations in which proto-oncogene can lead to Non-Small Cell Lung Adenocarcinoma and Anaplastic Large-cell Lymphoma? ALK"
"Mutations in which proto-oncogene can lead to Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders? JAK2"
"A(n) gain of function mutation converts a proto-oncogene to an oncogene"
"A(n) loss of function mutation to a tumor suppressor gene increases the risk of cancer"
"Do both alleles of a protooncogene need to be mutated in order for expression of disease? No"
"Do both alleles of a tumor suppressor gene need to be mutated in order for expression of disease? Yes"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor gene can lead to FAP associated Colorectal Cancer? APC"
"The APC tumor suppresor regulates the Wnt signalling pathway by destroying B-catenin in the absence of a Wnt receptor-ligand interaction"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor genes can lead to Breast, Ovarian, and Pancreatic cancers? BRCA1/BRCA2"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor gene can lead to Melanoma, Pancreatic Cancer, and Dysplastic Nevus Syndrome? CDKN2A::not p53"
"The tumor suppressors encoded by the CDKN2A gene enforce the G1-->S restriction point by: (1) - inhibiting CDK4/6 (2) - relieving inhibition of P53"
"The DCC gene is a(n) tumor suppresor that is frequently mutated in advanced colorectal cancer"
"The DCC tumor suppressor gene is involved in apoptotic regulation of the GI tract epithelium"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor gene can lead to Juvenile Polyposis Syndrome, Colon Adenocarcinoma, and Pancreatic Cancer? SMAD4"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor gene can lead to MEN I? MEN1 (Menin)"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor protein can lead to Neurofibromatosis I? Neurofibromin"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor gene/protein can lead to Neurofibromatosis II? gene-NFII protein-Merlin (Schwannomin)"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor genes can lead to Tuberous Sclerosis? TSC1 & TSC2"
"BRCA1 and BRCA2 are tumor suppresors that are involved in mediating the Homologous Recombination pathway of DNA repair"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor genes can lead to Wilms Tumors? WT1 and CDKN1C (WT2)"
"Mutations that cause overexpression of the HER2 receptor can precipitate development of certain Breast* and Gastric* Cancers by amplifying the signal transduction"
"Mutations in CCND1 can cause Mantle Cell Lymphoma via a t(11;14) translocation to the Ig Heavy Chain locus"
"Mutations in which tumor suppressor gene can lead to Breast, Prostate, Endometrial Cancer, and Cowden Syndrome? PTEN"
"Mutations in PTEN lead to overactivity of mTOR proto-oncogene"
"Dermatomyositis can present as a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with adenocarcinomas"
"Acanthosis Nigricans can present as a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with gastric cancer and other visceral malignancies"
"Does Acanthosis Nigricans typically present as a paraneoplastic syndrome? No"
"Which paraneoplastic syndrome presents with progressive proximal muscle weakness, papules on the knuckles, and a rash around the eyes? Dermatomyositis"
"Which paraneoplastic syndrome presents with hyperpigmented velvety plaques in the arm-pit and neck? Acanthosis Nigricans"
"The Sign of Leser-Trélat can present as a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma and other visceral malignancies (ex. Lymphoid malignancies)"
"Which paraneoplastic syndrome presents with a sudden onset of multiple seborrheic keratoses? Sign of Leser-Trélat"
"Hypertrophic Osteoarthropathy can present as a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with Adenocarcinoma of the Lung"
"Hypertrophic Osteoarthropathy is caused by an abnormal proliferation of skin and bone at distal extremities"
"Which paraneoplastic syndrome presents with digital clubbing, arthralgias, joint effusions, and periostosis of tubular bones? Hypertrophic Osteoarthropathy"
"Which paraneoplastic syndrome is associated with Squamous Cell Carcinomas of Lung, Head, and Neck; along with Renal, Bladder, Breast, and Ovarian Carcinoma? Humoral Hypercalcemia of Malignancy"
"The hypercalcemia seen in patients with Humoral Hypercalcemia of Malignancy is mediated by PTHrP"
"The hypercalcemia seen in patients with Lymphoma is mediated by Calcitriol"
"Tumors that cause a(n) paraneoplastic polycythemia can be remembered with the mnemonic: Paraneoplastic rise to high hematocrit levels Pheochromocytoma Renal cell carcinoma Hepatocellular Carcinoma Hemangioblastoma Leiomyoma"
"Cushing Syndrome and SIADH can present as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with Small Cell Lung Cancer"
"Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) and Good syndrome can present as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with Thymoma"
"Good Syndrome refers to the presence of hypogammaglobulinemia that appears near simultaneously as a thymoma"
"Patients with Good Syndrome have deficient levels of what types of lymphocytes? B & T lymphocytes"
"Marantic Endocarditis and Trousseau Syndrome can present as paraneoplastic syndromes associated with visceral Adenocarcinomas"
"Trousseau Syndrome is a(n) migratory superficial thrombophlebitis"
"Anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis can present as a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with Ovarian Teratoma"
"Which paraneoplastic syndrome presents with psychiatric disturbances, memory deficits, seizures, dyskinesias, autonomic instability, and language dysfunction? Anti-NMDA Receptor Encephalitis"
"Paraneoplastic Cerebellar Degeneration is a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with antibodies against antigens in purkinje cells"
"Small Cell Lung Cancer can produce anti-Hu antibodies which can cause both Paraneoplastic Cerebellar Degeneration and Paraneoplastic Encephalomyelitis"
"Gynecological and Breast cancers can produce anti-Yo antibodies which can cause Paraneoplastic Cerebellar Degeneration"
"Hodgkin Lymphoma can produce anti-Tr antibodies which can cause Paraneoplastic Cerebellar Degeneration"
"Paraneoplastic Encephalomyelitis is a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with antibodies against antigens in Neurons"
"Opsoclonus-Myoclonus Ataxia Syndrome is a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with Small Cell Lung Cancer in adults"
"Lambert Eaton Myasthenic Syndrome is a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with Small Cell Lung Cancer"
"Myasthenia Gravis is a paraneoplastic syndrome associated with Thymoma"
"Tumor cells that downregulate MHC class I can be detected and destroyed by Natural Killer cells"
"In order to determine a confidence interval of a(n) sample mean at a given alpha value, the standard deviation, and sample size are also necessary"
"Tumors that present with PSaMMoma bodies are: Papillary carcinoma of thyroid Somatostatinoma Meningioma Malignant Mesothelioma Ovarian serous papillary cystadenocarcinoma Milk (prolactinoma)"
"Sacubitril is an antihypertensive that may be combined with ARBs for the treatment of chronic systolic heart failure"
"Sacubitril is a(n) neprilysin inhibitor"
"ANP and BNP are endogenously metabolized by the enzyme neprilysin"
"When considering Consent for Minors, situations in which parental consent is usually not required can be remembered by the mnemonic Sex (Contraception, STIs, Pregnancy) Drugs (Substance Abuse) Rock and Roll (Emergency / Trauma)"
"Legal exceptions for parental consent include: (1) - emergency treatment (2) - if the minor is legally emancipated"
"One hallmark of cancer is the ability to be insensitive to anti-growth signals, such as TGF-β"
"Is this histology of this Cervical Epithelium normal, mildly dysplastic, moderately dysplastic, or severe dysplasia / carcinoma in situ? Normal"
"One hallmark of cancer is the Warburg effect, in which cancer cells shift glucose metabolism from mitochondria toward glycolysis"
"In regards to cervical epithelium, if the tissue sample on the left is normal, is the tissue sample on the right: mildly dysplastic, moderately dysplastic, or severely dysplastic / carcinoma in situ? Mildly Dysplastic::Think about nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, tissue orientation, and pleomorphy VS"
"In regards to cervical epithelium, if the tissue sample on the left is normal, is the tissue sample on the right: mildly dysplastic, moderately dysplastic, or severely dysplastic / carcinoma in situ? Moderately Dysplastic::Think about nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, tissue orientation, and pleomorphy VS"
"A characteristic of the transformation from normal cells to dysplastic cells is that they become pleomorphic"
"A characteristic of the transformation from normal cells to dysplastic cells is that there is a loss of tissue orientation"
"A characteristic of the transformation from normal cells to dysplastic cells is that there is is an increased nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio"
"In regards to cervical epithelium, if the tissue sample on the left is normal, is the tissue sample on the right: mildly dysplastic, moderately dysplastic, or severely dysplastic / carcinoma in situ? Severely Dysplastic / Carcinoma in Situ::Think about nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, tissue orientation, and pleomorphy VS"
"How much of the epithelium do cells that are severely dysplastic or have become carcinoma in situ involve? Entire thickness*"
"Do severely dysplastic / carcinoma in situ cells penetrate the intact basement membrane? No"
"Is carcinoma in situ reversible? No"
"Invasive carcinoma invades through the basement membrane using matrix metalloproteinases to access the extracellular matrix"
"In invasive carcinoma, cell-cell contacts are lost by inactivation of E-cadherin"
"Invasive carcinoma cells first bind to basement membrane via laminin"
"Once past the basement membrane, Invasive carcinomas are able to spread locally via attachment to fibronectin"
"Invasive carcinomas become metastatic when they invade the lymphatics or blood"
"In the \seed and soil\\" theory of metastasis: the seed is the tumor embolus\""
"In the \seed and soil\\" theory of metastasis: the \\"soil\\" (target organ) is often the first encountered capillary bed\""
"To remember the most common neoplasias that spread hematogenously (Every Hematogenous Spreading Cancer Reigns Foolishly) Embryonal carcinoma Hepatocellular carcinoma Sarcomas Choriocarcinoma Renal cell carcinoma Follicular carcinoma of the thyroid"
"What percent of brain tumors are from metastases? 50%"
"The primary tumors for brain metastases can be ranked in the following order: Lung > Breast > Melanoma, Colon, Kidney::3 sites"
"After the regional lymph nodes, what are the two most common sites of metastasis? Liver and Lung"
"The primary tumors for liver metastases can be ranked in the following order (patients with liver mets Cant Get Pints): Colon >> Gastric > Pancreas"
"In terms of bone tumors, are bone metastases or 1* bone tumors more common? Metastases, significantly"
"Metastases to the bone have a predilection for the axial skeleton"
"The primary tumors for Bone metastases can be ranked and remembered by the following mnemonic: (Pb (lead) KeTlLe) Prostate > Breast > Kidney, Thyroid, Lung"
"The most common type of metastases to the bone from the breast are mixed::lesion type"
"The most common type of metastases to the bone from Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer are lytic::lesion type"
"The most common type of metastases to the bone from the thyroid are lytic::lesion type"
"The most common type of metastases to the bone from the kidney are lytic::lesion type"
"The most common type of metastases to the bone from the prostate are blastic"
"Lung metastases have a high predilection for the brain due to the proximity of the cerebral vasculature"
"Colon metastases have a high predilection for the liver due to its venous drainage into the portal vein"
"Prostate metastases have a high predilection for the spine due to the prostates venous plexus connection to Batson's venous plexus"
"Metastasis to bone may be bone forming (blastic), bone destructive (lytic), or mixed"
"Lytic bone metastases present with hypercalcemia"
"Blastic bone metastases present with high alkaline phosphatase levels"
"While carcinomas typically spread lymphatically, sarcomas spread hematogenously"
"The initial lymphatic spread of a carcinoma is to regional draining lymph nodes"
"Carcinomas can also directly seed peritoneal structures"
"The most common body cavity seeded by a tumor is the peritoneal cavity"
"In Central cyanosis, there is normal blood flow, and patients will have warm::temperature extremities"
"Central cyanosis typically manifests in the lips, nail beds, and conjunctiva, and other mucosal surfaces"
"In peripheral cyanosis, there is low blood flow, and patients will have cold::temperature extremities"
"Right-to-left shunts typically require urgent surgical treatment and/or maintenance of a(n) PDA"
"The 5 T's of Right-to-Left Shunts: 1. Truncus Arteriosus::1 vessel 2. Transposition::2 switched vessels 3. Tricuspid atresia::3 = Tri 4. Tetralogy of Fallot::4 = Tetra 5. TAPVR::5 letters in the name"
"Ebstein's Anomaly is associated with Wolff-Parkinson-White, which can lead to arrhythmias"
"Pulmonary Atresia is the failure of the pulmonic valve orifice to develop"
"Pulmonary atresia results in no flow from right ventricle to lungs"
"Pulmonary Atresia often co-exists with VSD for outflow of RV"
"Candidemia has an increased prevalence in patients with neutropenia::blood complication"
"Which of the following types of tumors tends to be slow growing, well circumscribed, distinct, and mobile? Benign"
"Which of the following types of tumors tends to be rapid growing, poorly circumscribed, infiltrative, and fixed to surrounding tissues and local structures? Malignant"
"Before a tumor can be classified as benign or malignant with certainty, biopsy or excision must be performed"
"Cachexia is a syndrome of weight loss, muscle atrophy, and fatigue that occurs in chronic diseases"
"Cachexia is mediated by what four cellular factors? TNF, IFN-γ, IL-1, IL-6"
"The P-glycoprotein is a(n) ATP-dependent efflux pump that tumors can produce to generate chemotherapeutic resistance"
"P-glycoprotein is normally found in the intestinal and renal tubular epithelial cells to eliminate foreign compounds from the body"
"P-glycoprotein is found in the capillary endothelium of the blood brain barrier"
"P-glycoprotein is encoded for by the MDR1 gene"
"P-glycoprotein is classically seen in adrenocortical carcinoma but is also expressed in various other cancers"
"Serum tumor markers should only be used for: - monitoring tumor recurrence - monitoring response to therapy"
"Most notably, the serum tumor marker Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP) is elevated in patients with metastases to bone or liver, Paget Disease of Bone, or Seminoma"
"If a patient has moderately elevated serum Alkaline phosphatase levels, you should determine if hepatobiliary or bony origin by checking GGT levels"
"The source of alkaline phosphatase can be determined by an ALP isozyme test, which works by gel electrophoresis"
"α-fetoprotein (AFP) is a serum tumor marker elevated in (mnemonic: HE-MAN is the alpha male) - Hepatocellular carcinoma - Endodermal sinus (yolk sac) tumor - Mixed germ cell tumor - Ataxia-telangiectasia - Neural tube defects"
"α-fetoprotein (AFP) is a protein that is normally made by the fetus"
"Elevated α-fetoprotein (AFP) can be associated with abdominal wall defects (ex. Omphalocele)"
"α-fetoprotein (AFP) is transiently elevated in pregnancy"
"Normal levels of α-fetoprotein (AFP) are seen in Trisomy 13 (Patau)"
"Low levels of α-fetoprotein (AFP) are seen in Trisomy 21 (Down's) and decreased levels are seen in Turner Syndrome"
"Most notably, the serum tumor marker β-hCG is elevated in patients with Gestational Trophoblastic Disease (GTD), Testicular Cancer (non-seminomatous), and Mixed Germ Cell tumors"
"Elevated β-hCG is seen in pregnancy, especially when there are multiple gestations"
"Elevated hCG can be a paraneoplastic syndrome, such as in pinealomas::neuro or large cell carcinoma::respiratory"
"Most notably, the serum tumor marker CA 15-3 / CA 27-29 are seen elevated in Breast Cancer"
"Most notably, the serum tumor marker CA 19-9 is seen elevated in Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma"
"Most notably, the serum tumor marker Calcitonin is seen elevated in Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma::malignancy"
"The Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a serum tumor marker that has major associations with colorectal and pancreatic cancers"
"The Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a serum tumor marker that has minor associations with gastric, breast, and medullary thyroid carcinomas"
"How specific is the serum tumor marker CEA? Very nonspecific"
"Patients who are smokers have higher levels of what serum tumor marker? CEA"
"CEA is elevated in gastrointestinal diseases (ex. Crohns, Pancreatitis)"
"Most notably, the serum tumor marker Chromogranin is elevated in patients with neuroendocrine tumors"
"LDH can be used as an indicator of tumor burden"
"Most notably, the serum tumor marker PSA is elevated in Prostate Cancer"
"Because PSA can be also elevated in BPH and prostatitis besides Prostate Cancer, there is a questional risk/benefit for screening"
"PSA can be used as a surveillance marker for recurrent disease after prostatectomy"
"Histologically, in benign tumors there is absence of invasion of basement membrane / local tissue, whereas in malignant tumors there is presence of invasion"
"Do malignant tumors have metastatic potential? Yes"
"When examining a tumor, differentiation refers to the degree to which a tumor resembles its tissue of origin"
"Well differentiated tumors closely resemble their tissue of origin, whereas poorly differentiated tumors look almost nothing like tissue of origin"
"Poorly differentiated tumors are often more aggressive, whereas well differentiated tumors are often less aggressive"
"Anaplasia is the complete lack of differentiation of cells in a malignant neoplasm"
"Tumor grade is the degree of cellular differentiation and mitotic activity on histology"
"Tumor stage is the degree of localization / spread based on site and size of 1* lesion, spread to regional lymph nodes, and presence of metastases"
"Tumors that are low grade are well differentiated"
"Tumors that are high grade are poorly differentiated, undifferentiated, or anaplastic"
"Which has more prognostic value, tumor stage or grade? Tumor Stage"
"Tumor stage is classified by the TNM Staging System, which represents: - Tumor size / invasiveness - Node involvement - Metastases"
"An example of when the tumor staging factor of tumor size / invasiveness is the most important is in Melanoma (Breslow Thickness)"
"Tumor staging is based on clinical::c or pathological::p findings"
"Pityriasis rosea presents with multiple pink plaques with a(n) collarette scale"
"Mini-epidemics of Pityriasis Rosea will often occur among young adults::demographic"
"Burns are injuries to tissue caused by heat, chemicals, and/or radiation"
"The most common cause of burns in children are scald burns"
"The most common cause of burns in adults are flame burns"
"The three zones of burns from outermost to innermost are: - Zone of hyperemia - Zone of stasis (edema) - Zone of ischemia (coagulation)"
"Is damage in the zone of ischemia reversible (and if yes, does it need treatment)? No"
"Is damage in the zone of stasis / edema reversible (and if yes, does it need treatment)? Yes, with treatment"
"In burns, the zone of stasis / edema has decreased perfusion due to microvascular thrombosis"
"Is damage in the zone of hyperemia reversible (and if yes, does it need treatment)? Yes, without treatment"
"Superficial burns are 1st degree burns"
"Superficial burns involve which layers of the skin? Epidermis only"
"Partial thickness burns are 2nd degree burns"
"Superficial partial thickness burns involve which layers of the skin? Epidermis, Superficial Dermis"
"Superficial partial thickness burns cause the skin to blister"
"Superficial burns are blanchable::blanchable / not blanchable? and painful::painful / not painful?"
"Superficial partial thickness burns are blanchable::blanchable / not blanchable? and painful::painful / not painful?"
"Deep partial thickness burns are not blanchable::blanchable / not blanchable? and are painful to pressure only"
"While deep partial thickness burns do not::do/do not? heal without scarring, simple partial thickness burns do::do/do not? heal without scarring"
"Deep partial thickness burns involve which layers of the skin? Epidermis, Superficial Dermis, Deep Dermis"
"Full thickness burns are 3rd degree burns"
"Full thickness burns involve which layers of the skin? Epidermis and whole Dermis"
"Full thickness burns are not blanchable::blanchable / not blanchable? and not painful::painful / not painful?"
"Full thickness burns have a(n) waxy or leathery appearance"
"Do full thickness burns heal without scarring? No"
"Significant / serious burns are treated with surgery, restoration of volume status, infection prophylaxis, and testosterone to promote recovery"
"Burns can cause massive volume loss by alteration of capillary permeability (Kf)"
"Serious burns can lead to hypovolemic shock"
"Massive fluid loss in significant burns can cause acute gastritis::GI problem"
"A 4th degree burn will involve through the epidermis to the hypodermis, and in some cases muscle and bone"
"Clostridium perfringens binds claudins, resulting in watery diarrhea due to destruction of tight junctions"
"Which MEN syndrome can have multiple angiofibromas, collagenomas, meningiomas, and lipomas? MEN1"
"Urinary incontinence > 2 times / week for > 3 months in persons > 5 years old is known as Enuresis"
"The first line treatments for Enuresis are behavioral modification and positive reinforcement"
"For refractory cases of Enuresis, you can use a bedwetting alarm or oral desmopressin"
"UTIs are associated with urgency incontinence"
"Polyuria is associated with overflow incontinence"
"Bladder outlet obstruction is associated with overflow incontinence"
"Neurogenic bladder is associated with overflow incontinence"
"Testicular torsion may lead to infertility and thus is treated with urgent surgery"
"The palpable \bag of worms\\" on physical exam in a patient who has a varicocele may be augmented by the Valsalva maneuver\""
"If a patient has a varicocele, consider surgical ligation or catheter embolization if associated with pain or infertility"
"The posterior pituitary gland is derived from neural tube of the ectoderm"
"Urethral injury occurs almost exclusively in men"
"If blood is seen at a patients urethral meatus, you should suspect a urethral injury"
"In a anterior urethral injury, the bulbar (spongy) part of the urethra is damaged"
"In a posterior urethral injury, the membranous part of the urethra is damaged"
"Posterior urethral injuries are typically caused by a(n) pelvic fracture"
"In a posterior urethral injury, urine leaks into the retropubic space"
"Patients with a posterior urethral injury present with blood at urethral meatus and a(n) \high-riding\\" boggy prostate\""
"Anterior urethral injuries are typically caused by a(n) perineal straddle injury"
"In an anterior urethral injury, blood accumulates in the scrotum, and can spread into the perineal space"
"In an anterior urethral injury, if the Buck Fascia is torn, urine can leak into the superficial perineal space"
"Patients with an anterior urethral injury present with blood at urethral meatus and a(n) scrotal hematoma"
"Is placement of a foley (urethral) catheter contraindicated in urethral injury? Relatively contraindicated"
"Spinal Shock describes a change from areflexia --> hyporeflexia --> hyperreflexia in patients with spinal cord injuries"
"Patients with spinal shock may develop autonomic dysreflexia in those with spinal cord injuries typically above T6"
"Critical Limb Ischemia is an advanced stage of peripheral artery disease that is a triad of Ischemic Rest Pain, Arterial Insufficiency Ulcers, and Gangrene"
"Arterial Insufficiency (Peripheral Artery Disease) is due to occlusion of arteries, most commonly due to atherosclerosis or other artery specific inflammatory processes"
"Patients with Peripheral Artery Disease have a higher risk of having a(n) MI than critical limb ischemia"
"Patients with Peripheral Arterial Disease present with claudication, acute rest pain, and numbness distally to occlusion"
"Peripheral Arterial Disease is most commonly caused by occlusion of the popliteal artery"
"Short Bowel Syndrome is a malabsorption disorder caused by a lack of functional small intestine"
"Short bowel syndrome is most commonly seen in patients who have had small intestine resection"
"Patients with short bowel syndrome often develop an increased frequency of calcium oxalate kidney stones"
"Palbociclib is a small molecular inhibitor of the CDK 4/6 enzymes"
"Palbociclib prevents cell cycle progression past the G1-->S restriction point"
"The major side effect of Palbociclib is neutropenia"
"Ipilimumab and Pembrolizumab are monoclonal antibodies that work by downregulating immune tolerance mechanisms *bonus: their respective targets:"
"Anakinra is used to treat Rheumatoid Arthritis"
"Sirolimus and cyclosporine are synergistic::pharmacological property when given with each other"
"Extragonadal germ cell tumors arise in midline locations"
"Are extragonadal germ cell tumors in the retroperitoneum and mediastinum regions most commonly associated with adults or infants / young children? Adults"
"Are extragonadal germ cell tumors in the sacrococcygeal and intracranial regions most commonly associated with adults or infants / young children? Infants / Young Children"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may be treated with surgical resection, with the gold standard being the TURP procedure"
"Which of the following is a lymphoid / myeloid neoplasm with widespread involvement of bone marrow? Leukemia"
"Which of the following is a discrete tumor mass arising from lymph nodes? Lymphoma"
"In patients with leukemia, unregulated growth and differentiation of WBCs in bone marrow results in marrow failure"
"Do patients with Leukemia typically present with decreased, normal, or increased circulating WBCs? Usually increased"
"Leukemic cell infiltration of liver, spleen, lymph nodes, and skin (leukemia cutis) is possible"
"Palbociclib is used to treat Breast Cancer that is ER + and HER2 -"
"While Chronic lymphocytic leukemia is typically asymptomatic, it infrequently presents with B-symptoms and mucocutaneous bleeding"
"\Broken Heart Syndrome\\" is also known as Takotsubo cardiomyopathy\""
"In Takotsubo Cardiomyopathy, there is ventricular apical ballooning due to increased sympathetic stimulation"
"Commotio cordis is ventricular fibrillation caused by blunt cardiac injury"
"Because Leuprolide downregulates GnRH receptors, patients can present with decreased libido, erectile dysfunction, and hypogonadism"
"Patients taking Leuprolide can experience nausea and vomiting"
"Hodgkins Lymphoma can be classified as Classical or more rarely, Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant"
"Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant Hodgkins Lymphoma is a rare variant that is characterized by \popcorn cells\\"\""
"Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma has unusual surface marker expression in that it usually lacks CD15 and CD30 but expresses CD-19 and CD20"
"Waldeyer's Ring is lymphoid tissue in the pharynx that is often involved in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma"
"Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma is most commonly caused by alterations in Bcl-2 or Bcl-6"
"What do the brown tumors of Osteitis Fibrosa Cystica contain? Osteoclasts & Hemosiderin (from macrophages)::2"
"What stain can you use to observe infarcted tissue of the heart on biopsy? Triphenyltetrazolium chloride stain"
"Achlorhydria can cause a vitamin B12 deficiency by preventing release of B12 from food particles"
"One cause of vitamin B12 deficiency is (SIBO) small intestinal bacterial overgrowth"
"Ifosfamide can cause neurotoxicity due to buildup of its metabolite chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), which can be treated with methylene blue"
"Patients with basilar skull fractures may have retroauricular ecchymosis (\Battle's Sign\\")\""
"Basilar skull fractures most often follow traumatic head injuries and commonly involve the petrous segment of the temporal bone"
"Patients with a basilar skull fracture can present with periorbital ecchymosis (\raccoon eyes\\")\""
"Patients with basilar skull fractures can have CSF leaks from the nose or the ears"
"Patients with basilar skull fracture may present with blood in the tympanic cavity of the ear"
"Patients with a basilar skull fracture may present with a(n) facial nerve palsy due to entrapment"
"A fracture of the middle third::what section? clavicle is the most common clavicle fracture"
"What fracture occurs most commonly from a direct fall on the shoulder? Clavicle fracture"
"Patients with clavicle fractures present with shoulder pain that gets worse::better or worse with movement"
"Patients with clavicle fractures may have tenting of the skin overlying the fracture"
"Clavicle fractures can be seen in newborns due to birth trauma"
"Diagnosis for a clavicle fracture is based on the clinical presentation as well as imaging"
"The recurrent laryngeal nerve may be transected during ligation of the inferior thyroid artery during thyroid surgery"
"If a patient has a(n) Thyroidea ima artery, a midline tracheostomy may cause profuse bleeding"
"Long-term infant deprivation of affection may result in disinhibited social engagement disorder (infant indiscriminately attaches to strangers)"
"Red flags for physical abuse include history inconsistent with degree or type of injury"
"Red flags for physical abuse include delayed medical care"
"Red flags for physical abuse include caregiver story changing with each retelling"
"Forms of emotional abuse include verbal abuse, criticism, intimidation, humiliation"
"Euthyroid sick syndrome is an apparent alteration of thyroid hormone level with normal thyroid gland function seen in critically ill patients"
"Most commonly, patients with euthyroid sick syndrome will have: - serum TSH normal - total serum T4 normal - total serum T3 ↓ - reverse T3 ↑"
"Should you start thyroid hormone replacement in a patient with euthyroid sick syndrome? No*"
"Refeeding syndrome is seen in significantly malnourished anorexic / hospitalized patients after being given a food / nutrition bolus without slow titration"
"Patients with anorexia nervosa present with bradycardia, hypotension, and decreased bowel sounds"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with hyponatremia? Hypothyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with hypoactivity, lethargy, and fatigue? Hypothyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with hyperactivity, restlessness, and insomnia? Hyperthyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with anxiety? Hyperthyroidism"
"What is the most common arrhythmia seen in Hyperthyroidism? Atrial Fibrillation"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with chest pain and systolic hypertension? Hyperthyroidism"
"Hyperthyroidism increases number and sensitivity of B-adrenergic receptors"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with increased TSH (if 1*) and decreased free T3 / T4? Hypothyroidism"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with decreased TSH (if 1*) and increased free T3 / T4? Hyperthyroidism"
"What is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism? Graves disease"
"What two HLA subtypes is Graves disease associated with? HLA-DR3, HLA-B8"
"On histology, patients with postpartum thyroiditis exhibit a(n) lymphocytic infiltrate with occasional germinal center formation"
"Does the rash of Scarlet fever affect the face? Yes***"
"Which component of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is present in virulent strains? Cord-factor"
"Which component of Mycobacterium tuberculosis allows the bug to survive in macrophages? Sulfatides"
"Do Graves ophthalmopathy symptoms often improve when you treat the hyperthyroidism? No"
"What stage of sleep has a sleep EEG waveform with a low voltage pattern that often appears \saw toothed\\"? REM sleep\""
"Nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics work by decreasing sleep latency"
"Which fungus can grow in old lung cavities (e.g. TB, Klebsiella, etc)? Aspergillus (aspergillomas)"
"CRISPR/Cas9 is a genome editing tool that is derived from bacteria to knock in / out any DNA sequence"
"At its core, CRISPR/Cas9 utilizes an endonuclease (Cas9) and a(n) guide RNA that binds to a complementary target DNA sequence"
"When using CRISPR/Cas9 that introduce a double strand break to knock-out target DNA, nonhomologous end joining enzymes repair the gap introduced by this Cas9 variant"
"When using CRISPR/Cas9 to knock-in DNA, a(n) repair template must be added to guide insertion of a construct"
"Thyrotoxicosis can cause what form of cardiomyopathy? Dilated"
"What cardiac pathology results in global enlargement of the heart and dilation of all chambers? Myocarditis"
"While the presentation of myocarditis is highly variable, it can include fever, dyspnea, chest pain, and characteristically a persistent tachycardia out of proportion to fever"
"What cardiac pathology can be caused by adenovirus, coxsackie B, parvovirus B19, HIV, and HHV-6? Myocarditis"
"On biopsy of a heart with myocarditis, a(n) lymphocytic infiltrate with focal necrosis is highly indicative of viral myocarditis"
"What three parasitic infections are most commonly associated with myocarditis (TCTGTC)? Trypanosoma cruzi, Toxoplasma gondii, Toxocara Canis"
"What four bacterial infections are most commonly associated with myocarditis? (Some Bacteria Cause Myocarditis)  - Streptococcus Pyogenes - Borrelia burgdorferi - Corynebacterium Diphtheriae - Mycoplasma pneumoniae"
"Carbon Monoxide poisoning is associated with which cardiac pathology? Myocarditis"
"Myocarditis can be caused by the venom of the black widow"
"What cardiac complication do Kawasaki disease, sarcoidosis, SLE, and poly/dermatomyositis share? Myocarditis"
"Myocarditis is a major cause of sudden cardiac death in adults under 40 years old"
"Complications of myocarditis include arrhythmias, heart failure, cardiogenic shock and dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Myocarditis can precipitate a mural thrombus"
"What type of upper airway obstruction is depicted by the following flow-volume loop? Variable extrathoracic obstruction"
"What type of upper airway obstruction is seen in vocal cord paralysis / dysfunction and laryngeal tumors? Variable extrathoracic obstruction"
"What type of upper airway obstruction is depicted by the following flow-volume loop? Variable intrathoracic obstruction"
"What type of upper airway obstruction is seen in tracheomalacia and bronchogenic cysts? Variable intrathoracic obstruction"
"What type of upper airway obstruction is depicted by the following flow-volume loop? Fixed upper airway obstruction"
"What type of upper airway obstruction is seen in tracheal stenosis, extraluminal goiter and mediastinal mass? Fixed upper airway obstruction"
"Central sleep apnea may be also caused by delayed detection / response to changes in PaCO2 resulting in cyclic (cheyne-stokes) breathing"
"Central sleep apnea is treated with positive airway pressure"
"Dengue fever has 4::# different serotypes"
"Which flavivirus commonly presents with retro-orbital pain? Dengue fever"
"Dengue fever is associated with a positive tourniquet test, which results in petechiae after blood pressure cuff inflation"
"Primary infection with dengue fever is asymptomatic or self-limited"
"Secondary infection with dengue fever is associated with severe illness"
"What is the treatment for pelvic inflammatory disease? Ceftriaxone + azithromycin/doxycycline"
"What is the most common cause of tubal-factor infertility? Pelvic inflammatory disease"
"Humoral immunity is used to attack extra-cellular bacteria"
"Cell-mediated immunity is used to attack intra-cellular bacteria"
"Which toxin of Listeria monocytogenes lyses vacuolar membranes within host cells? Listeriolysin O"
"Prolactinomas can result in decreased estrogen, resulting in osteoporosis::bone in females"
"Where does osteomyelitis most commonly occur in adults? Vertebral bodies"
"Where does osteomyelitis most commonly occur in children? Metaphysis of long bones"
"Phosphate groups give DNA a(n) negative charge"
"Histones are positively charged because they have a large quantity of lysine and arginine amino acids"
"Do mitochondrial DNA utilize histones? No"
"Is mitochondrial DNA circular or linear? Circular"
"What process is used embryologically to cause \Lyonization\\" DNA Methylation\""
"What process is used to repress transposable elements? DNA Methylation"
"\Barr bodies\\" formed by lyonization may be visible where in the cell? Periphery of the nucleus\""
"Deamination of adenine ultimately makes hypoxanthine"
"Deamination of guanine makes xanthine"
"In cells, expression of RNA polymerase I is restricted to the nucleolus"
"The process that allows transmembrane vs secreted Ig, tropomyosin variants in muscle, and dopamine receptors in the brain to all come from respective single hnRNA transcripts is known as alternative splicing"
"Which inherited lysosomal storage disorder can present with gingival hyperplasia, claw hand deformities, and kyphoscoliosis? I-cell disease"
"Patients with the vascular type of Ehlers danlos can present with damage to muscles and fragile tissues"
"In regards to wrinkles of aging, there is decreased synthesis of collagen fibrils and increased crosslinking of collagen"
"A direct ELISA tests for a(n) antigen, whereas the indirect ELISA tests for a(n) antibody against an antigen"
"% penetrance x probability of inheriting a genotype = risk of expressing phenotype"
"Females with Turner Syndrome due to an (45,XO genotype) are more likely to have what type of concurrent disorders? X-linked recessive disorders"
"What trinucleotide repeat disorder is associated with autism? Fragile X syndrome"
"The 5A's of down syndrome are: Advanced maternal age Atresia (Duodenal) Atrioventricular septal defect Alzheimers (early onset) AML/ALL"
"What microdeletion syndrome is associated with supravalvular aortic stenosis and renal artery stenosis? Williams syndrome"
"In a patient with a Vitamin B12 (Cobalamin) deficiency, B9 (Folate) supplementation will mask hematological but not neurological symptoms"
"Vitamin D deficiency is seen in patients with malabsorption, decreased sun exposure, poor diet, and chronic kidney disease"
"A(n) Synthase/Synthetase enzyme joins two molecules together using a source of energy"
"Nicotinamides (NAD+, NADP+) come from Vitamin B3"
"Flavin nucleotides (FAD+) come from Vitamin B2"
"What three treatments for hyperammonemia act by reacting with glycine / glutamine, forming products that are renally excreted? Benzoate, Phenylacetate, Phenylbutyrate::3"
"The urinary cyanide-nitroprusside test is diagnostic for which renal disease? Cystinuria"
"The hallmark of what glycogen storage disease is a flat venous lactate curve with a rise in ammonia levels during exercise? McArdle disease"
"Can red blood cells use ketones for energy? Why? No, they lack mitochondria"
"Rupture of the thoracic duct can cause chylothorax"
"The normal neonatal thymus appears \sail-shaped\\" on a Chest X-Ray\""
"In which type of immunity is microbial resistance not heritable? Adaptive immunity::innate or adaptive"
"In which type of immunity (innate or adaptive) does microbial resistance persist through generations? Innate immunity"
"Which type of immunity utilizes C-Reactive Protein and complement? Innate immunity::innate or adaptive"
"LPS, bacterial flagellin, and viral nucleic acids are detected by the innate immune system via Pattern-Recognition Receptors"
"NF-kB activation pathway: Pattern-Recognition Receptors recognize PAMPs which leads to activation of IKB kinase"
"What class of helper T cell secretes IL-17, -21, and -22? Th17 *What does each do?"
"What class of helper T cell when deficient results in mendelian susceptibility to mycobacterial disease? Th1"
"What class of helper T cell promotes immunity against extracellular microbes Th17"
"Differentiation of helper T cells to Th17 is inhibited by IFN-γ and IL-4 (from Th1 and Th2 cells)"
"What class of helper T cell when deficient results in Hyper-IgE syndrome? Th17"
"What class of helper T cell secretes TGF-B, IL-10, and IL-35? Regulatory T cell"
"The macrophage-lymphocyte interaction is also enhanced by interaction of T cell CD40L with CD40 on macrophages"
"The oxidative burst also leads to an influx of K+, which releases lysosomal enzymes"
"Type I Interferons downregulate protein synthesis to resist potential viral replication"
"Type I Interferons increase cell surface expression of MHC proteins to facilitate recognition of infected cells"
"Which immunodeficiency is associated with an infiltrative lymphohistiocytosis? Chédiak-Higashi"
"What type of vaccine is the Adenovirus vaccine? Live non-attenuated"
"In what sole population is the Adenovirus vaccine indicated? Military recruits"
"Which type of vaccine has the lowest chance of adverse reactions? Subunit"
"Which types of vaccines usually requires booster shots? Killed/inactivated vaccine"
"Which type of vaccine is typically the most expensive? Subunit"
"Which type of vaccine includes only the antigens which best stimulate the immune system? Subunit"
"What type of vaccine is the HBV vaccine? Subunit"
"What type of vaccine is the HPV vaccine? Subunit"
"What type of vaccine is the acellular pertussis (aP) vaccine? Subunit"
"What type of vaccine are the Meningococcal vaccines? Subunit"
"Is the conjugate vaccine or the polysaccharide vaccine the only meningococcal vaccine indicated for people older than 55? *Conjugate"
"What type of vaccine are the pneumococcal vaccines? Subunit"
"What type of vaccine is the Hib vaccine? Subunit"
"Which type of vaccine protects against bacterial toxins? Toxoid"
"Which type of vaccine may require a booster? Toxoid"
"Toxoid vaccines are composed of a denatured bacterial toxin with an intact receptor binding site"
"Does administration of the Toxoid vaccine itself have any potential for causing disease? No"
"What type of vaccine is the Tetanus vaccine? Toxoid"
"What type of vaccine is the Diphtheriae vaccine? Toxoid"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is the Candida extract test? Type IV HSR (CD4 Mediated)"
"Hepatitis D virus receives a(n) viral coat from HBsAg in order to penetrate the hepatocyte"
"Which cutaneous manifestation is seen in primary syphilis? Genital chancre (painless)"
"Which cutaneous manifestation is seen in secondary syphilis? Condyloma lata & Diffuse maculopapular rash::2"
"Which cutaneous manifestation is seen in tertiary syphilis? Gummas"
"Which stage of syphilis does cardiovascular involvement occur? Tertiary stage"
"Which blood transfusion reaction can be caused by cytokines which are created and accumulate during the storage of blood products Febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reaction"
"Are autoclaves reliable for inactivating prions? No"
"Chlorine works by oxidizing and denaturing microbial proteins"
"Quaternary amines work by impairing permeability of cell membranes"
"Which RNA virus can result in an aversion to smoking? HAV"
"Which condition(s) result in the inability to do double stranded nonhomologous end-joining of DNA? Ataxia telangiectasia; due to defect in ATM gene"
"Which immunodeficiency can present with cerebellar atrophy? Ataxia Telangiectasia"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice for Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis? Nucleic acid amplification test (NAAT)"
"Which cellular adaptation is usually preceded by persistent metaplasia or pathologic hyperplasia? Dysplasia"
"Is mild/moderate dysplasia reversible? Potentially"
"In coagulative necrosis, there is increased cytoplasmic binding of eosin stain"
"Ischemia occurs when there is inadequate blood supply to meet demand"
"Ischemia can occur due to decreased arterial perfusion"
"Ischemia can occur due to decreased venous drainage"
"Ischemia can occur due to hypoperfusion (ex. shock)"
"What are anatomical locations that receive blood supply from the most distal branches of 2 arteries with limited collateral vascularity known as? Watershed areas (border zones)"
"One cardinal sign of inflammation is Functio laesa, or loss of function"
"Which cause of genital ulceration presents with painful vesicles on an erythematous base? HSV"
"Acute phase reactants are liver produced factors whose serum concentrations change significantly in response to inflammation"
"Are acute phase reactants produced by liver in acute or chronic inflammatory states? Both :)"
"What acute phase reactant is upregulated during inflammation to bind and sequester iron to inhibit microbial iron scavenging? Ferritin"
"What acute phase reactant is upregulated during inflammation to promote endothelial repair? Fibrinogen"
"What acute phase reactant is upregulated during inflammation that correlates with ESR Fibrinogen"
"What class of acute phase reactant that when upregulated during chronic inflammation can lead to amyloidosis? serum amyloid A proteins"
"Which cause of genital ulceration presents with painful genital ulcer with purulent exudate? Chancroid (Haemophilus ducreyi)"
"What acute phase reactant is upregulated during inflammation to prevent iron release from macrophages and enterocytes? Hepcidin"
"Which cause of genital ulceration presents with painless red genital ulcer that bleeds on contact? Granuloma inguinale/donovanosis (Klebsiella granulomatis)"
"Which cause of genital ulceration presents with donovan bodies on biopsy? Granuloma inguinale/donovanosis (Klebsiella granulomatis)"
"What acute phase reactant is upregulated during inflammation to opsonize targets, fix complement and facilitate phagocytosis? C-reactive protein"
"What acute phase reactant can be measured clinically as a nonspecific sign of ongoing inflammation? C-reactive protein"
"What acute phase reactant is downregulated during inflammation to conserve amino acids for positive reactants? Albumin"
"What acute phase reactant is downregulated during inflammation by being internalized into macrophages to sequester iron? Transferrin"
"Alcohol can lead to the development of squamous cell carcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent URI that presents with CHF, dilated ventricles with diffuse hypokinesia, and low EF on echocardiogram? Dilated cardiomyopathy"
"In eccentric hypertrophy, sarcomeres are added in series::series/parrallel"
"Diffuse esophageal spasm is characterized by normal LES pressure on esophageal manometry"
"Diffuse esophageal spasm presents with spontaneous chest pain that radiates to the back, ears, and neck"
"Diffuse esophageal spasm is caused by strong, non-peristaltic contractions of the esophageal body"
"Diffuse esophageal spasm is associated with GERD"
"On a barium swallow x-ray, patients with diffuse esophageal spasm are seen to have a \corkscrew esophagus\\"\""
"Homatropine is muscarinic::general class antagonist used as a cycloplegic / mydriatic"
"Tropicamide is a(n) muscarinic::general class antagonist used as a cycloplegic / mydriatic"
"Glycopyrrolate is a(n) M3::specific receptor antagonist"
"Glycopyrrolate is used preoperatively to reduce drooling (when given orally) and to reduce airway secretions (when given parenterally)"
"Glycopyrrolate can be used to treat peptic ulcer disease when taken orally"
"Glycopyrrolate is a(n) M3::specific receptor receptor antagonist that is used to reduce activity of glands"
"Hyoscyamine and dicyclomine are muscarinic::general class antagonists used as antispasmodics"
"If a patient wants to try alternative or holistic medicine that is known to be safe, should you allow them to do so? Yes"
"In total myocardial ischemia, loss of cardiomyocyte contractility occurs within 60 seconds after onset"
"When total myocardial ischemia lasts less than 30 minutes, restoration of blood flow leads to reversible contractile dysfunction"
"After 30 minutes of total myocardial ischemia, is ischemic injury reversible? No"
"Patients with carotid sinus hypersensitivity are at increased risk of syncope / lightheadedness when pressure is applied around the neck (ex. a tight shirt collar)"
"Enteric bacteria (Gut flora) produce vitamins, particularly Vitamins K and B9"
"In acute mitral regurgitation, how do the following change? - Preload = significantly increase - Afterload = decrease - Ejection fraction = significantly increase - Forward stroke volume = decrease"
"To calculate bioavailability using graphs of plasma concentration vs time utilizing nonintravenous vs intravenous administration, what is the formula? \(F = \frac{AUC_{oral} / dose_{oral}  }{AUC_{IV} / dose_{IV}  }\)"
"Does the following cardiac/vascular function graph reflect a patient with chronic anemia or anaphylaxis? Chronic Anemia"
"Does the following cardiac/vascular function graph reflect a patient with chronic anemia or anaphylaxis? Anaphylaxis"
"The ilioinguinal nerve (L1) carries sensation from the skin of medial upper thigh, root of the penis, and upper part of the scrotum / mons pubis + labia major"
"The inferior hypogastric plexus innervates internal pelvic viscera"
"SMA syndrome can occur due to pronounced lordosis or surgical correction of scoliosis"
"On CT, constrictive pericarditis presents with calcification and thickening of the pericardium"
"What vertebral level is this CT image taken at? T12/L1"
"Acute inflammation typically results in resolution and healing, which is mediated by IL-10 and TGF-β"
"The inflammasome is a cytoplasmic protein complex that recognizes products of dead cells, microbial products, and crystals"
"Activation of the inflammasome leads to increased production of IL-1B and IL-18"
"Talcosis is a disease that causes granulomas of the lung"
"In the setting of chronic inflammation, macrophages can be activated to M1 macrophages by stimulation from Th1 cells, resulting in a(n) proinflammatory phenotype"
"In the setting of chronic inflammation, macrophages can be activated to M2 macrophages by stimulation from Th2 cells, resulting in a(n) antiinflammatory phenotype"
"Systemic amyloidosis can have hematologic manifestations, including splenomegaly and periorbital purpura"
"Systemic amyloidosis can result in a peripheral neuropathy and carpal tunnel syndrome"
"Systemic amyloidosis can have gastrointestinal manifestations, including hepatomegaly, malabsorption and macroglossia"
"Pelvic splanchnic nerves and CNs III, VII, IX and X are part of the parasympathetic nervous system"
"Does the adrenal medulla have postganglionic sympathetic fibers? No"
"Sweat glands are part of the sympathetic pathway, but the innervating postganglionic sympathetic fibers release acetylcholine"
"The renal vasculature smooth muscle is innervated by sympathetic fibers that release dopamine instead of norepinephrine."
"Patients taking Tizanidine can develop hypotension, weakness, and xerostomia::oral complication"
"Clonidine may be used for symptom control in opioid withdrawal"
"β-blockers are useful in the prophylactic management of variceal bleeding by decreasing the hepatic venous pressure gradient and portal hypertension"
"Activation of which sympathetic receptor leads to increased lipolysis, increased thermogenesis in skeletal muscle, and increased bladder relaxation? β3"
"Nebivolol blocks β1 receptors and stimulates β3 receptors"
"The Beers criteria are used to reduce potential inappropriate prescribing and harmful polypharmacy in the geriatric population"
"One possible complication of mitral stenosis is dysphagia and hoarseness due to left atrial dilatation and compression of surrounding structures"
"What does σ represent in regards to capillary fluid exchange? Reflection coefficient"
"In regards to myocardial infarction complications, LV hypertrophy and previous MI protect against ventricular free wall rupture"
"The acute form of ventricular free wall rupture usually leads to sudden death"
"Behçet syndrome has a high incidence in those of Turkish / East Mediterranean descent"
"Flares of Behçet syndrome last 1-4 weeks"
"Abdominal pain in henoch-schonlein purpura is associated with intussusception"
"The following list of drugs are recommended to use in patients with Primary (essential hypertension)"
"The following drugs are good for Hypertension and Heart Failure as they help prevent cardiac remodeling ACE inhibitors, β-blockers (compensated HF), and Aldosterone Antagonists"
"In patients with hypertension and what comorbidity should ACE inhibitors / ARBs become first line? Hypertension with Diabetes Mellitus"
"Patients with hypertension and what comorbidity should replace ACE inhibitors with ARBs and nonselective β-blockers with cardioselective β-blockers? Obstructive Lung Disease"
"To remember the drugs that are safe to treat hypertension in pregnancy: Hydralazine Labetalol Methyldopa Nifedipine"
"Patients with acromegaly can develop hypertension"
"Empty sella syndrome is associated with idiopathic intracranial hypertension"
"The osmotic diuresis in diabetic ketoacidosis may lead to fatal arrhythmias by causing total body K+ depletion"
"Gestational diabetes is treated with insulin replacement if nutrition therapy and exercise alone fail"
"Metformin can cause a vitamin B12 deficiency"
"a-glucosidase inhibitors are not recommended if kidney function is impaired"
"Patients taking sevelamer can develop hypophosphatemia and GI upset::GI side effect"
"Is Gastroschisis associated with chromosomal abnormalities? No"
"Is omphalocele associated with chromosomal abnormalities? Yes"
"Which ventral wall defect is associated with Beckwith Wiedemann Syndrome? Omphalocele"
"Which ventral wall defect is associated with cardiac, GU, neural tube based structural abnormalities? Omphalocele"
"An ultrasound of a patient with hypertrophic pyloric stenosis shows a(n) thickened and lengthened pylorus"
"Injuries to the displayed structures can cause an accumulation of blood or gas in the retroperitoneal space (Retroperitoneal Hematoma)"
"Which organ is mostly extraperitoneal? Bladder"
"The rectosigmoid junction (sudeck point) is a watershed region supplied by the last sigmoid arterial branch from the IMA and the superior rectal artery"
"Cholangiography can be used to show filling defects in the gallbladder and cystic duct"
"Ménétrier disease presents with epigastric pain, anorexia, weight loss, vomiting, and edema (due to protein loss)"
"Patients who are experiencing intussusception may draw their knees to their chest to ease the pain"
"Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis is the most severe form of Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease"
"Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis is seen with a high prevalence in the Native American male population"
"Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is treated empirically with a(n) 3rd generation cephalosporin"
"What is the curative treatment for Crigler-Najjar syndrome? Liver transplant"
"Thrombopoietin stimulates megakaryocyte proliferation and is made in the liver"
"The typical normal values for a WBC differential (per USMLE) are: Neutrophils (~ 60%) Lymphocytes (~ 30%) Monocytes (~ 6%) Eosinophils (~ 3%) Basophils (~ 1%)"
"The clotting factor with the shortest half life is Factor VII, whereas the factor with the longest half life is Factor II (thrombin)"
"Lead poisoning presents in adults with environmental exposure (batteries, ammunition) with headache and memory loss due to demyelination, as well as abdominal colic (pain)"
"Patients with lead poisoning often manifest with symptoms of GI and kidney dysfunction / disease"
"Initially immune thrombocytopenia can be treated with steroids, but if it becomes refractory the patient can be given rituximab Bonus*- what drug inhibits the macrophages?"
"The carina is posterior to ascending aorta and anteromedial to descending aorta"
"A needle should be positioned for a tension pneumothorax at the 5th* ICS along the anterior-axillary line"
"Will a laterally directed passage of a needle along either midclavicular line penetrate cardiac tissue? No"
"To anteriorly aspirate fluid from a patient's pleural cavities without hitting any other organs (spleen, liver, lung), ideally a needle should be injected into the 7th::number intercostal space"
"Would you be able to aspirate pleural cavity fluid from the 9th or 10th ICS spaces at the midaxillary line without penetrating other structures? No"
"Depending on heart size, the point of maximal apical impulse can be felt at the 5th left ICS"
"In the normal heart, the aorta is posterior and to the right of the pulmonary artery; whereas in D-transposition of the great vessels, the aorta is anterior and to the right of the pulmonary artery"
"When placing a biventricular pacemaker, the three leads are placed in the: - right atrium - right ventricle - coronary sinus"
"Bicuspid aortic valves occur in 1-2% of live births"
"Bicuspid aortic valves lead to premature atherosclerosis and calcification of the aortic valve"
"Chronic rhinosinusitis frequently causes mucus retention cysts in the maxillary sinus"
"Mitral regurgitation can be treated with arteriolar vasodilator therapy as it increases the forward-to-regurgitant volume ratio"
"Clostridioides difficile can be treated with metronidazole, vancomycin, or fidaxomicin"
"Fidaxomicin is an antimicrobial that inhibits the sigma subunit of RNA polymerase"
"Is the external iliac artery intraperitoneal, extraperitoneal, or retroperitoneal? Retroperitoneal"
"The external iliac artery becomes the femoral artery as it crosses the inguinal ligament"
"The optimal site for obtaining vascular access in the lower extremity during cardiac catheterization is the femoral artery below the inguinal ligament"
"Fluid accumulates in the right paracolic gutter from pathology involving intra-peritoneal GI organs (particularly right sided ones)"
"Because Class IC antiarrhythmics have a strong binding affinity and dissociate primarily during diastole, a(n) increased heart rate results in a longer QRS complex"
"What class of antiarrhythmics will prolong QRS duration? Class I antiarrhythmics::I, II, III, or IV"
"Characteristic histological findings of GERD include basal zone hyperplasia, elongation of the lamina propria papillae, and scattered eosinophils and neutrophils"
"Dihydroergotamine is not frequently used for migraine treatment due to its significant side effect profile, including gangrene and vasospastic (prinzmetal) angina"
"The chi-square test can be used to evaluate whether the expected frequency of an occurrence is consistent with the observed frequency of that occurrence"
"Linear regression is used to model the linear relationship between a dependent variable and an independent variable"
"The correlation coefficient is a measure of the strength and direction of a linear relationship between 2 variables"
"Isolated systolic hypertension can occur in aging::most common cause, severe aortic regurgitation, or systemic causes (anemia, hyperthyroidism)"
"A bicuspid aortic valve presents with a soft systolic early ejection murmur that radiates to the neck with a high frequency ejection click::extra sound"
"How does Aortic Stenosis affect LV EDP and PCWP? Both are increased"
"Which lymph node cluster drains the splenic flexure and the upper descending colon? Left colic lymph nodes"
"A cesearean delivery typically involves midline vertical separation of the rectus abdominis"
"If the rectus abdominis is transected horizontally, the inferior epigastric vessels should be ligated bilaterally to prevent bleeding complications"
"The external iliac artery gives off two branches which emerge immediately proximal to the inguinal ligament: - inferior epigastric artery which branches medially - deep circumflex iliac artery which branches laterally"
"The obturator artery takes off from the internal iliac artery"
"The superior gluteal artery is the continuation of the internal iliac artery"
"Endothelial dysfunction of the pulmonary vasculature results in increased vasoconstrictors and decreased vasodilators"
"Is pulmonary hypertension due to left heart disease usually at least partially reversible following correction of underlying abnormality? Yes"
"Patients with systemic mastocytosis have clonal mast cell proliferation in the bone marrow, skin, and other organs"
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may cause diastolic::diastolic/systolic heart failure"
"Systemic mastocytosis can be characterized by prominent expression of mast cell tryptase"
"Patients with systemic mastocytosis can present with syncope, flushing, hypotension, pruritis, and urticaria due to massive histamine release"
"Patients with systemic mastocytosis are prone to developing gastric ulcers"
"Aging of the heart eventually results in the ventricular septum acquiring a(n) sigmoid shape"
"In a patient with Eisenmenger syndrome, will repair of the precipitating cardiac defect prevent pulmonary vascular sclerosis from becoming irreversible? Yes"
"Does renal function change with age? Yes"
"Eribulin is a chemotherapeutic that works by inhibiting microtubule assembly and sequestering tubulin into nonfunctional aggregates"
"Methotrexate rarely causes a(n) nephrotoxicity"
"Procarbazine is a chemotherapeutic alkylating agent used to treat Hodgkin's lymphoma and brain tumors"
"Procarbazine has notable side effects; including pulmonary toxicity and leukemia *bonus: pts shouldn't eat what food?"
"In a(n) greenstick::greenstick or torus fracture, the compression side is intact, bone fails on tension side"
"In a(n) torus (buckle)::greenstick or torus (buckle) fracture, the compression side cortex fails while the bone remains intact on tension side"
"Achondroplasia is associated with increased paternal age"
"Laryngomalacia presents with inspiratory stridor during infancy due to collapse of supraglottic tissues during inspiration"
"Choanal atresia is characterized by congenital obstruction of posterior nasal passages"
"Infants with bilateral::unilateral / bilateral choanal atresia can present with upper airway obstruction and cyanosis with feeding"
"bacterial mRNA can be polycistronic, meaning one mRNA codes for several proteins"
"How long does it take for constrictive pericarditis to occur? Several weeks to months"
"Is pulsus paradoxus typically seen in patients with myocarditis? No"
"Patients with Cardiac Tamponade have an enlarged \water bottle\\" shaped heart on chest x-ray\""
"Cardiac tamponade may be caused by malignancies / radiation therapy; infections (most commonly viral), drugs, and connective tissue diseases"
"Aortocavitary fistulas are an uncommon complication of bacterial endocarditis"
"Absolute contraindications to OCPs include: - prior / family history of stroke - history of a(n) estrogen dependent tumor - women over 35 who smoke heavily"
"Subclavian steal syndrome typically occurs due to hemodynamically significant stenosis of the subclavian artery proximal to the origin of the vertebral artery"
"Patients with subclavian steal syndrome may present with arm ischemia in the affected artery upon exercise or lifting the arm above the head"
"Patients with subclavian steal syndrome present with vertebrobasilar insufficiency (dizziness, vertigo, drop attacks)"
"What lab finding distinguishes between E. coli and Enterobacter? Indole positivity (in E. coli)"
"Hepatitis B infection What does the presence of anti-HBc and anti-HBs indicate? Recovery from acute HBV"
"Hepatitis B infection What does the presence of anti-HBs only indicate? Vaccination"
"Hepatitis B infection What does the presence of persistent HBsAg and HBV DNA indicate? Chronic HBV infection"
"Hepatitis B infection Which serum HBV marker predicts infectivity? HBeAg"
"Which common cause of necrotizing fasciitis is a gram-positive rod and PYR negative? Clostridium perfringens"
"Which common cause of necrotizing fasciitis is a gram-positive cocci and PYR-positive? Streptococcus pyogenes"
"Which common cause of necrotizing fasciitis is a gram-positive cocci and PYR-negative? Staph aureus"
"What effect does carotid massage have on AV node refractory period? Prolongation"
"A carotid massage temporarily inhibits the activity of the SA node"
"Vagal maneuvers can be used to acutely terminate which arrhythmia? Paroxysmal Supraventricular Tachycardia (PSVT)"
"Fidaxomicin is indicated for recurrent cases of infection by Clostridioides difficile"
"Is the recurrence rate of C. difficile colitis lower or higher when taking Fidaxomicin than with vancomycin? Significantly lower"
"Does fidaxomicin have a weaker or stronger effect on normal colonic flora than metronidazole or vancomycin? weaker"
"On a CT of the thorax, the trachea is a good landmark to localize the esophagus (located posteriorly) and the great vessels (located anteriorly)"
"If compression of the hepatoduodenal ligament via a Pringle maneuver does not cease bleeding, the source of the RUQ bleed is most likely the inferior vena cava or the hepatic vein"
"Approximately 90% of left atrial thrombi are found within the left atrial appendage in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation"
"Atrial flutter is most often caused by a re-entrant current that rotates around the tricuspid annulus"
"Intergluteal pilonidal disease is an acquired skin infection involving the upper natal cleft of the buttocks"
"Will a patient with a retrocecally oriented appendix typically develop significant shifting of pain to McBurney's point? No"
"Patients who are being infused with norepinephrine and develop rigid induration and pallor around the IV site can be treated with a local injection of phentolamine"
"Patients with pericarditis present with pleuritic chest pain and is relieved by postural changes"
"The anastomosis of what arteries allows perfusion of the celiac trunk and the SMA by each other in cases where either is thrombosed or ligated? Superior and inferior pancreaticoduodenal arteries"
"What is the most common intra-abdominal organ injured during blunt trauma? Spleen"
"Patients with Abetalipoproteinemia will have enterocytes with clear cytoplasm, prominently at the tips of the villi"
"Juvenile polyps are benign with some malignant potential"
"Reversible cellular injury is characterized ultrastructurally with clumping of nuclear chromatin"
"Gastric (fundal) varices result from portosystemic shunting between the short gastric veins (portal) and inferior phrenic (systemic) vein"
"Descending colon varices result from portosystemic shunting between the left colic vein (portal) and retroperitoneal (of Retzius) (systemic) veins"
"Achlorhydria can result in abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, malabsorption, iron deficiency anemia and infections by vibrio species"
"A deficiency in methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is the most common genetic cause of hyperhomocysteinemia"
"A pericardial knock is a brief, high frequency, precordial sound heard in early diastole in patients with constrictive pericarditis"
"Edema may be caused by sodium and water retention"
"Edema may be caused by lymphatic obstruction"
"On an abdominal CT scan, the pancreas can be identified by: - its head in close association with the 2nd part of the duodenum - its body overlying the abdominal aorta::vasculature"
"Splenic lacerations can irritate the phrenic nerve"
"What pathology presents with mid-anterior chest wall pain, shortness of breath, persistent tachycardia, and new conduction defects on ECG (ex. bundle branch block) Blunt cardiac injury"
"Breast milk jaundice causes a(n) indirect hyperbilirubinemia that peaks at age 2"
"Breast milk jaundice is likely caused by the presence of β-glucuronidase in breast milk"
"Low-dose aspirin is commonly used to prevent ischemic stroke in patients with Transient ischemic attack"
"Appendiceal carcinoid tumors typically have a benign course but may cause obstruction and appendicitis"
"Patients with patent ductus arteriosus can be predisposed to respiratory tract infections"
"Biliary atresia is treated with Kasai liver procedure, which attaches the distal duodenum to the liver"
"The BLM helicase is involved in regulating Homologous Recombination, and when mutated causes Bloom syndrome"
"Patients with Bloom Syndrome present with cafe-au-lait spots, rash from sun exposure, and short stature"
"Because patients with Bloom syndrome have a dysfunctional BLM helicase enzyme, they are at great risk of developing cancer"
"Which ocular complication is associated with congenital Rubella? Cataracts"
"Which ocular complication is associated with congenital CMV? Chorioretinitis"
"Which ocular complication is associated with congenital toxoplasmosis? Chorioretinitis"
"Chronic hypertension causes the left ventricle to undergo concentric::eccentric/concentric hypertrophy due to increased afterload on the heart"
"Decreased GFR and efferent constriction causes AKI in patients with bilateral renal artery stenosis taking ACE inhibitors::drug"
"A persistent stapedial artery is a defect of the 2nd aortic arch that presents with a pulsatile tinnitus and hearing loss"
"An aberrant internal carotid artery is a defect of the 3rd aortic arch that presents with pulsatile tinnitus"
"An aberrant right subclavian artery is an aortic arch defect which results in a misplaced 4th aortic arch derivative"
"An aberrant right subclavian artery presents with hoarseness (due to compression of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve) and dysphagia (due to compression of the esophagus by a(n) vascular ring)"
"An aberrant right subclavian artery causes the right recurrent laryngeal nerve to become non-recurrent"
"Because milrinone causes both systemic arteriolar and venous dilation, it should not be used in severely hypotensive patients"
"Which organ of the body has the most effective oxygen extraction? Heart"
"Due to the high degree of oxygen extraction by the myocardium, increases in myocardial oxygen demand can only be met by an increase in coronary blood flow"
"The left renal vein can become compressed between the aorta and SMA as it crosses the midline"
"Patients with Nutcracker syndrome can develop a left sided varicocele"
"Branches of the subclavian artery can be remembered with the mnemonic (VIT CD) V - Vertebral artery I - Internal thoracic (internal mammary) artery T - Thyrocervical trunk C - Costocervical artery D - Dorsal scapular artery"
"Branches of the external carotid artery can be remembered with the mnemonic (Some Angry Ladies Fight Off PMS) S - Superior thyroid artery A - Ascending pharyngeal artery L - Lingual artery F - Facial artery O - Occipital artery P - Posterior auricular artery M - Maxillary artery S - Superficial temporal artery"
"The middle meningeal artery is a branch of the maxillary artery"
"Reye syndrome is characterized by micro-vesicular fatty change"
"Costochondritis is characterized by episodic chest pain that worsens with movement or changes in position; without warmth, swelling, erythema, or other cardiovascular / pulmonary signs or symptoms"
"Costosternal syndrome (costochondritis) typically presents after repetitive activity and involves the upper costal cartilage at the costochondral or costosternal junctions"
"Diastase can be used in conjunction with PAS to demonstrate glycogen deposits"
"Toxoid vaccines result in the production of anti-toxin antibodies"
"Name 2 catalase-positive organisms not included in SketchyMicro (1) Burkholderia cepacia (2) Serratia marcescens"
"Primary infection with HSV will present as gingivostomatitis"
"Reactivated infection with HSV will present as herpes labialis"
"The state of chronic myocardial ischemia in which both myocardial metabolism and function are reduced to match a concomitant reduction in blood flow is known as myocardial hibernation"
"The changes of the myocardium in myocardial hibernation lead to decreased contractility"
"Will restoration of blood flow to \hibernating\\" myocardium improve contractility and LV function? Yes\""
"Pulsus paradoxus is quantified by measuring the variation of systolic pressure during expiration and inspiration"
"Acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina / MI) usually occurs due to plaque rupture, due to an imbalance of metalloproteinase activity"
"Patients who have been hit by lightning will present with a characteristic lichtenburg figure skin finding"
"While lightning injuries are rare, the most common cause of death is a(n) arrhythmia"
"Patients with renal artery stenosis may eventually develop renal atrophy"
"The hallmark histologic findings of acute viral hepatitis include hepatocyte necrosis and apoptosis with mononuclear infiltration"
"Hepatocyte necrosis is characterized by cellular swelling and cytoplasmic emptying (\ballooning degeneration\\")\""
"In severe cases of acute viral hepatitis, adjacent lobules are interconnected by swaths of dead hepatocytes called \bridging necrosis\\"\""
"The major determinant of whether or not a coronary artery plaque will cause ischemic myocardial injury is the rate of arterial occlusion"
"Intermittent muscle pain reproducibly caused by exercise and relieved by a brief period of rest is known as (intermittent) claudication"
"On a PA chest x-ray of the thorax, the right atrium composes most of the right side of the cardiac silhouette"
"Risk factors for gout include male biological sex, hypertension, obesity, diabetes, dyslipidemia, with the strongest being hyperuricemia"
"What are the most common causes of death in SLE (mnemonic - lupus patients die with Redness In Cheeks) Renal disease (most common) Infections Cardiovascular (accelerated CAD)"
"Both polymyositis and dermatomyositis are associated with interstitial lung disease"
"Dermatomyositis may present with a \Mechanic's rash\\""
"Patients with scleroderma can present with a sclerodermal renal crisis, which is an intense renal failure that causes hypertensive emergency"
"Apical surfaces of ependymal cells are covered in cilia (which circulate CSF) and microvilli (which help in CSF absorption)"
"What cells synthesize the myelin for cranial nerve II? Oligodendrocytes"
"What cells synthesize the myelin for cranial nerves III through XII? Schwann cells"
"Cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) is directly proportional to PCO2 until PCO2 is > 90 mmHg"
"Dural venous sinuses are large venous channels that run through the periosteal and meningeal layers of the dura mater"
"One common cause of an embolic ischemic stroke is carotid artery stenosis"
"A putamen hemorrhage (ex. rupture of charcot-bouchard microaneurysm on vessels supplying putamen) manifests with: contralateral hemiparesis - damage to Internal Capsule / genu contralateral hemisensory loss - damage to thalamus gaze deviation towards side of bleed - damage to frontal eye fields"
"Hypertensive hemorrhages most often occur in the putamen of the basal ganglia, followed by thalamus, pons, and cerebellum"
"Alexia without Agraphia is a speech deficit associated with posterior cerebral artery infarct"
"When diagnosing neurodegenerative disorders, you must first rule out depression::psych disorder as a cause of the presenting dementia"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension presents with an enlarged blind spot and peripheral constriction on visual field testing"
"The most common type of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT1A) is a duplication of large region of 17p which results in a mutation of PMP22"
"The constant cycles of demyelination and remyelination seen in Charcot-marie-tooth result in unique histologic findings, including a(n) \onion bulb\\" appearance around nerves that innervate muscles\""
"The constant cycles of demyelination and remyelination seen in Charcot-marie-tooth result in unique histologic findings, including muscle fiber type \grouping\\"\""
"What is the best surgical landmark for identifying the appendix? Teniae coli"
"Isolated gastric fundal varices are seen in splenic vein thrombosis"
"Umbilical hernias are specifically due to a defect in the linea alba::anatomical structure"
"Umbilical hernias can be seen in association with down syndrome"
"Umbilical hernias are soft, benign, and reducible::reducible or non reducible?"
"Hiatal hernias are found in about half of patients with Mallory Weiss syndrome and are considered a strong predisposing factor"
"Accelerated emptying of hyperosmolar food boluses into the small bowel results in dumping syndrome"
"Dumping syndrome presents with colicky::quality abdominal pain, nausea, shakiness, and diarrhea"
"Patients can improve symptoms of dumping syndrome by avoiding large meals and have low dietary intake of simple sugars"
"Patients with acute viral hepatitis present with a(n) prodrome of fever, malaise, anorexia, nausea and vomiting"
"After several days (up to 1 week) of acute viral hepatitis prodrome, signs of cholestasis develop; jaundice, pruritus, dark-colored urine, and acholic stool"
"Dilated, tortuous veins most commonly found in the superficial veins of the leg are known as varicose veins"
"Varicose veins are a result of incompetence of the venous valves"
"Common complications of varicose veins include chronic edema, stasis dermatitis, skin ulcerations, poor wound healing, and infection"
"Phlegmasia alba dolens (painful white \milk\\" leg) is a result of massive common iliac vein occlusion\""
"Schwannomas are biphasic tumors; containing dense, hypercellular areas containing spindle cells alternating with hypocellular, myxoid areas"
"Most patients with bell palsy have a gradual recovery of function, but synkinesis (aberrant regeneration) can occur"
"An example of non-facial nerve palsy synkinesis is Freys Syndrome, where the auriculotemporal branch of V3 is cut during an excision of the parotid gland and reinnervates the skin sweat glands in front of the ear"
"One complication of synkinesis (abnormal nerve regeneration) after facial nerve palsy recovery is Crocodile tear syndrome that occurs during eating, due to a rewiring from the salivary gland to tear glands"
"Lesions to LMNs of CN VII (facial) may result in incomplete eye closure (dry eyes, corneal ulceration)"
"Patients with depersonalization / derealization disorder have intact reality testing"
"What drug should you avoid in delirium? Benzodiazepines"
"What leads (1) show ST elevations or Q waves in a Left Main (LCA) myocardial infarction? aVR"
"Because Vibrio vulnificus, Yersinia spp, and Listeria are siderophilic, they more commonly infect patients with Hemochromatosis"
"Streptococcus pyogenes (GAS) is pyrrolidonyl arylamidase (PYR) positive"
"Streptococcus agalactiae (GBS) is pyrrolidonyl arylamidase (PYR) negative"
"Streptococcus gallolyticus is pyrrolidonyl arylamidase (PYR) negative"
"Enterococcus is pyrrolidonyl arylamidase (PYR) positive"
"In regards to the development of infective endocarditis; mitral valve prolapse is the most common underlying valvular disease in developed countries, whereas rheumatic heart disease is the most common underlying valvular disease in non-developed countries"
"Gallbladder hypomotility is associated with what kind of gallstone? Cholesterol gallstones"
"Biliary sludge can cause biliary colic and promote cholesterol gallstone formation"
"The IVC is formed by the union of the right and left common iliac veins at the level of L4-L5"
"The IVC drains into the right atrium just above the level of the diaphragm at T8"
"The primary way unabsorbed copper is eliminated is by excretion into bile"
"The most common location for a pancreatic pseudocyst is in the lesser peritoneal sac"
"Intussusception is most common in patients under 2 years old"
"In patients with intussusception, a(n) barium enema is diagnostic and may be therapeutic"
"West Nile virus is associated with confusion resulting from encephalitis"
"Which flavivirus is associated with flaccid paralysis? West nile virus"
"Arboviruses, including West Nile virus, most commonly occur in the summer months"
"The inferior phrenic artery branches off the aorta at T12"
"While the middle suprarenal artery comes off the aorta, the superior suprarenal artery comes off the inferior phrenic artery and the inferior suprarenal artery comes off the renal artery"
"The great saphenous vein is located superficially in the leg and is the longest vein in the body"
"The great saphenous vein courses superiorly from the medial foot, anterior to the medial malleolus, and up the medial aspect of the leg / thigh"
"The great saphenous vein joins the femoral vein in the femoral triangle"
"The right ventricle composes the majority of the anterior surface of the heart"
"Blood flows continuously through the cardiac cycle in all organs except the heart"
"During systole, is there relatively constant blood flow to the right ventricular myocardium? Yes"
"During systole, is there relatively constant blood flow in the left ventricle's coronary arteries? No"
"Myxomatous degeneration in the tunica media is found in cystic medial degeneration, which predisposes to the development of aortic dissections / aortic aneurysms"
"Diverticula may classified according to morphology (true vs false) or pathogenesis (traction vs pulsion)"
"Side effects of direct arteriolar vasodilators (minoxidil, hydralazine) include reflex sympathetic activation, which can result in tachycardia and peripheral edema"
"A gastrojejunostomy removes the gastric antrum and attaches the gastric body to the proximal jejunum"
"Supine hypotension syndrome occurs when a pregnant woman lies on her back, and is due to the gravid uterus compressing the inferior vena cava"
"GVHD of the liver presents with similar histologic findings to what immune disorder? Primary biliary cholangitis"
"One complication of Crohn disease is a(n) enterocutaneous fistula, which can cause bowel contents to drain to the surface of the skin"
"Which cardiac tumor often causes systemic / constitutional symptoms (fevers, chills, sweats)? Myxoma"
"Culture of vagina at 35 wks gestation is done to indentify those who require intrapartum penicillin/ampicillin prophylaxis of S. agalactiae"
"What drug treats the dormant hypnozoites of P. vivax and P. ovale? Primaquine"
"Patients with severe aortic stenosis depend upon atrial contraction for maintenance of preload"
"Mesenteric adenitis is most commonly associated with Yersinia enterocolitica"
"Pulsus alternans refers to the beat-to-beat variation in pulse amplitude due to a change in systolic blood pressure"
"A dicrotic pulse has 2 distinct peaks (one during systole, other during diastole) due to an accentuated diastolic dicrotic wave after the dicrotic notch"
"A dicrotic pulse typically occurs in patients with severe systolic dysfunction and high systemic arterial resistance"
"A hyperkinetic pulse is a rapidly rising pulse with high amplitude due to the rapid ejection of a(n) large stroke volume against a decreased afterload"
"Pulsus alternans is most commonly seen in patients with severe LV dysfunction"
"A hyperkinetic pulse can occur with aortic regurgitation and high-output conditions"
"The presence of a fluid filled cavity in the liver in conjunction with fevers, chills, and RUQ pain is suggestive of a(n) hepatic abscess"
"In underdeveloped countries, hepatic abscesses have a relatively high incidence and are usually caused by parasitic infections"
"In developed countries, hepatic abscesses have a(n) low incidence and are caused by bacterial infection in 80% of cases"
"Pyogenic bacteria typically gain access to the liver through either a(n) biliary tract infection (ascending cholangitis) or portal vein pyemia"
"Hemorrhoids result from distension of the anal arteriovenous plexus"
"Internal hemorrhoids are treated with rubber band ligation"
"Obstruction of the brachiocephalic vein causes symptoms similar to those seen in SVC syndrome, but only on one side of the body"
"An enteropeptidase deficiency will lead to diarrhea, failure to thrive, and edema (due to hypoproteinemia)"
"Is the incidence of torsades de pointes with amiodarone higher or lower than other drugs that prolong the QT? Much lower"
"Patients with diffuse esophageal spasm typically present with intermittent solid / liquid dysphagia"
"The pathogenesis of Diffuse Esophageal Spasm likely involves impaired inhibitory neurotransmission within the esophageal myenteric plexus"
"Patients with acute decompensated heart failure typically present with cardiac asthma: (1) progressive dyspnea (2) orthopnea (3) lower extremity edema (4) bilateral crackles / wheezing"
"On chest x-ray of a person with acute decompensated heart failure, you will most likely see: - prominent cephalization of pulmonary vessels (red arrows) - perihilar alveolar edema - blunting of the costophrenic angles (blue arrows)"
"Kerley B lines may also be seen on a chest x-ray of a patient with acute decompensated heart failure"
"The following CXR is highly suggestive of what pulmonary pathology? Pneumothorax"
"The following CXR is highly suggestive of what pulmonary pathology? Primary Pulmonary HTN"
"The following CXR is highly suggestive of what restrictive pulmonary pathology in a ~ 50 year old man? Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis"
"Villous adenomas can cause secretory diarrhea, hypovolemia, and electrolyte abnormalities"
"Crohns disease is highly associated with mutations in the NOD2 gene"
"In Crohns disease, loss of the innate barrier function of the intestinal mucosa allows intestinal microbes to induce an exaggerated response by the adaptive immune system, resulting in chronic GI inflammation"
"Do infants who acquire HBV during birth have elevated liver enzymes? Minimally (due to underdeveloped immune system)"
"What HBV antigen is positive in neonates with infection acquired at birth? HBeAg"
"A bifid carotid pulse with a brisk upstroke is characteristic of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy"
"Eisenmenger Syndrome leads to a decreased O2 saturation in the LV"
"Holiday Heart Syndrome describes the precipitation of atrial fibrillation after excessive alcohol consumption"
"Two of the most likely methods to prevent intravascular catheter related infections include: - maximal barrier precautions during the procedure - hand hygiene prior to beginning the procedure"
"AV shunts increase preload and decrease afterload"
"Patients with recurrent DVTs can be given a(n) IVC filter if they have contraindications to anticoagulation"
"Achalasia may be treated with botulinum toxin injections"
"A patient with abdominal pain and distension, bloody diarrhea, fever and shock in the setting of ulcerative colitis or Clostridioides difficile is most likely presenting with Toxic megacolon"
"What imaging technique is the preferred diagnostic imaging study for Toxic Megacolon? Plain abdominal x-ray"
"Toxic megacolon describes the cessation of colonic contractions by way of transmural inflammation that results in significantly increased nitric oxide release"
"Hereditary pancreatitis may be caused by mutations in the cleavage site of trypsinogen or the SPINK1 protein"
"What is the most common malignant hepatic lesion? Liver metastasis"
"Risk of wrong-site surgery can be reduced by: - marking the operative site - requiring \dual identifiers\\" - performing a surgical time out before the procedure\""
"Does the medial track of the superficial lymphatic system of the lower extremity bypass the popliteal nodes? Yes"
"Does the lateral track of the superficial lymphatic system of the lower extremity bypass the popliteal nodes? No"
"Cardiovascular manifestations of lupus include accelerated atherosclerosis, small-vessel necrotizing vasculitis, pericarditis, and libman-sacks endocarditis"
"Examples of the beers criteria include drugs that increase the risk of hypotension (alpha blockers)"
"Examples of the beers criteria include drugs that increase the risk of anti-cholinergic activity (antihistamines, GI antispasmodics)"
"Drugs that are more lipophilic and have a higher volume of distribution are preferentially processed by the liver"
"Which prokaryotic polymerase has both 3 to 5' exonuclease activity and 5' to 3' exonuclease activity? DNA polymerase I"
"A mitral valve with diffuse fibrous thickening and distortion, commisural fusion at the leaflet edges, and narrowing of the mitral valve orifice is highly suggestive of what pathology? Mitral stenosis"
"Does a portal vein thrombosis cause histologic changes to the hepatic parenchyma? No"
"The massive centrilobular hepatic necrosis seen in certain inhaled anesthetics can cause the liver to rapidly atrophy and appear shrunken"
"A(n) preventable adverse event is defined as injury to a patient due to failure to follow evidence based best practice guidelines"
"A(n) sentinel event is an unexpected occurrence involving death or serious physical / psychological injury that requires immediate investigation"
"A(n) non preventable adverse event is a complication that cannot be prevented given the current state of medical knowledge"
"A(n) near miss is a medical error that is recognized before any harm is done to the patient"
"What is a legal determination that involves situations in which the treatment provided is below the accepted standard of practice and has resulted in injury or death to the patient? Malpractice"
"Most adverse drug reactions are predictable and are due to the known pharmacologic properties of the drug"
"An exaggerated drug sensitivity refers to adverse actions that occur due to known pharmacologic actions of the drug but at a lower dose than expected"
"A(n) idiosyncratic drug reaction is an unpredictable drug reaction due to genetic differences or complex metabolic interactions in certain patients"
"Immunologic drug reactions are unpredictable anamnestic responses to medications"
"Transformation is the direct uptake of naked DNA by bacteria"
"Conjugation is the transfer of DNA between bacteria using \sex pili\\"\""
"Generalized transduction is the transfer of random DNA between bacteria using bacteriophages"
"Specialized transduction is the transfer of specific DNA between bacteria using bacteriophages"
"Piriformis syndrome is caused by hypertrophy / muscle injury to the piriformis compressing structures traveling through the greater sciatic foramen"
"Piriformis syndrome manifests with symptoms of sciatica"
"The piriformis normally acts to: - externally rotate the thigh when extended - abduct the thigh when flexed"
"Poor maternal glucose control leads to excessive transplacental glucose transfer to the fetus"
"In the setting of gestational diabetes with poor control, fetal hyperglycemia leads to fetal hyperinsulinism and β cell hyperplasia"
"Gestational diabetes can lead to a placental vasculopathy, causing fetal asphyxia, growth restriction, and polycythemia"
"Recurrence of genital HSV can be suppressed or minimized with a(n) daily administration of valacyclovir"
"Will a short (7-10 day) course of treatment with acyclovir during the primary genital HSV infection alter recurrence rates? No"
"If a previously pregnant patient in the few hours / days after their delivery: - develops a sudden onset of back pain / radicular pain - progresses to complete or partial paralysis of the lower extremities What is this highly suggestive of? Spinal epidural hematoma"
"β-blockers must be used cautiously in decompensated HF and are contraindicated in cardiogenic shock"
"Aspirin and Ibuprofen can displace thyroid hormones from binding proteins and should be avoided in patients with hyperthyroidism"
"Patients with Bloom syndrome are associated with premature aging"
"Multiple sclerosis is characterized histologically by perivenular inflammatory infiltrates"
"Residual chronic findings of multiple sclerosis include hypertrophy and hyperplasia of astrocytes"
"Accessory nipples are typically asymptomatic but may swell or become tender during times of hormonal fluctuation"
"Congenital (melanocytic) nevi are caused by the clonal proliferation of benign melanocytes in utero"
"Solar lentigines are an increased proliferation of melanocytes that are associated with aging and increased exposure to the sun"
"Acrochordons are benign and often pedunculated outgrowths of normal skin"
"Masses (ex retroperitoneal hematoma / abscess) that involve the iliopsoas / iliacus muscle can result in femoral nerve palsy"
"Due to HIPAA, physicians may disclose patient information to friends and family members only when: - the patient gives explicit permission - the patient does not object when given a(n) reasonable opportunity"
"Are physicians required to provide medical services that are against their personal beliefs? No"
"Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common cause of malignant otitis externa, whereupon the causative organism can spread into deeper tissues and presents with exquisite ear pain and drainage"
"When you suspect a patient has major depressive disorder, you must screen for a history of manic episodes to rule out bipolar disorder"
"Major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern lasts > 2 years with > 2 major depressive episodes associated with a seasonal pattern"
"Major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern is most associated with what season? Winter"
"What is noticably absent in patients with major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern? Nonseasonal depressive episodes"
"In major depressive disorder with seasonal pattern, atypical symptoms are common (ex. hypersomnia, hyperphagia, leaden paralysis)"
"Other normal grief symptoms include shock, guilt, sadness, anxiety, yearning, and somatic symptoms that usually occur in waves"
"Non pathological grief is distinguished from pathologic grief in that any thoughts of dying are limited to joining the deceased"
"A(n) family history of completed suicide is another well-known risk factor for suicide completion"
"Importantly, to classify a patient as having Generalized Anxiety Disorder, symptoms do not meet the criteria for major depressive disorder"
"Between malingering, factitious, and somatic symptom disorders; in which disease are symptoms intentional, motivation intentional? Malingering"
"Between malingering, factitious, and somatic symptom disorders; in which disease are symptoms intentional, motivation unconscious? Factitious"
"Between malingering, factitious, and somatic symptom disorders; in which disease are symptoms unconscious, motivation unconscious? Somatic symptom disorders"
"Areas of necrosis and diminished blood supply facilitate the growth of anaerobic bacteria"
"What intoxicant causes spasms of the sphincter of oddi and has a direct toxic effect on acinar cells of the pancreas? Ethanol"
"G protein coupled receptors bind glycoproteins and contain three domains; an extracellular domain for ligand binding, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular domain coupled with heterotrimeric G proteins"
"The transmembrane domain of GPCRs is made up of non polar / hydrophobic amino acids and acts to anchor the receptor to the membrane"
"Persistence of the primary spongiosa in the medullary cavity of bone with no mature trabeculae is a classic finding in which bone pathology? Osteopetrosis"
"The levator ani muscles hold the bladder and the urethra in the appropriate anatomic position and comprise the pelvic floor"
"Women who are obese, or have had prolonged second stage of labor, multiple vaginal deliveries, or previous pelvic surgery are at an increased risk for pelvic floor injury"
"Injury to the levator ani muscles results in urethral hypermobility and can result in prolapse of the anterior vaginal wall and the bladder"
"Urethral hypermobility can lead to stress incontinence"
"Weakening of what ligaments contributes to uterine and vaginal apical prolapse? Uterosacral ligaments"
"Effect modification is when an external variable truly positively or negatively impacts the observed effect of a risk factor on disease status"
"Is effect modification a form of bias? No!"
"Boiling temperatures (100* C) are unable to kill spore-forming bacteria"
"What class of gram positive rods are spore-forming and aerobic? Bacillus spp."
"What class of gram positive rods are spore-forming and anaerobic? Clostridium spp."
"Which commonly used disinfectants (2) cause disruption of cell membranes? Alcohols; Chlorhexidine"
"Which commonly used disinfectant causes denaturation of proteins? Alcohols"
"Which commonly used disinfectant causes coagulation of cytoplasm? Chlorhexidine"
"Which commonly used disinfectant causes free radical production which oxidizes cellular components? H2O2"
"Which commonly used disinfectant causes halogenation of proteins and nucleic acids? Iodine"
"Which commonly used disinfectants are sporocidal? H2O2, Iodine::2"
"Which commonly used disinfectants (2) are not sporocidal? Alcohol, Chlorhexidine"
"What psychological disorder is characterized by increased intake of free water, leading to hyponatremia and production of a volume of dilute urine? Primary psychogenic polydipsia"
"Primary polygenic polydipsia can be treated with water restriction"
"As parkinson disease progresses, the therapeutic window for levodopa narrows and response becomes more unpredictable"
"Musculocutaneous nerve injury commonly occurs in the setting of: - trauma (ex shoulder dislocation) - bullet shot to the anterior biceps - strenous upper extremity exercise (ex. baseball pitching)"
"To gauge the degree of paralysis induced by neuromuscular junction blocking agents, train of four stimulation can be used during anesthesia"
"When a non-depolarizing NMJ blocker is administered, TOF stimulation show a(n) progressive reduction in each of the four responses"
"During phase I blockade using depolarizing NMJ blockers, TOF stimulation shows equal reduction of all four twitches"
"During phase II blockade using depolarizing NMJ blockers, TOF shows a(n) progressive reduction in each of the four responses"
"The duration of action of Succinylcholine is determined by its metabolism by plasma cholinesterase"
"In patients with a BCHE mutation, succinylcholine induced paralysis lasts for hours"
"Traumatic vascular dissection is a relatively common cause of ischemic stroke in the young, affecting the extracranial::intracranial or extracranial? vessels"
"The vertebral arteries course through the transverse foramina in the neck and thus can easily be injured by cervical spinal trauma (cervicocephalic dissection)"
"Internal carotid dissection can present with a tertiary horner syndrome, as well as profound neurologic deficits due to infarction of the cerebral hemisphere"
"CNS infarcts associated with damage to the vestibular portion of CN VIII is more commonly associated with lateral medullary lesions"
"Patients can become at increased risk for infections with vibrio vulnificus in the setting of achlorhydria and chronic liver disease"
"Conditions that can lead to achlorhydria include chronic PPI or antacid use, ménétrier disease, Sjögren's syndrome, atrophic gastritis, and VIPomas (WDHA syndrome)"
"Myocardial infarction induced acute left ventricular failure can result in rapid onset pulmonary venous hypertension::vascular pathology and acute pulmonary edema"
"Aminoglycosides can lead to severe decreases in Mg2+ serum concentration, which in prolonged use can eventually precipitate tetany"
"Manifestations of acute kidney transplant rejection include increased creatinine, hypertension, and reduced urine output"
"The nephrotoxicity caused by calcineurin inhibitors can result in histologic findings that include early arteriolar hyalinization and tubular vacuolization"
"Cryoglobulinemic vasculitis is a(n) small vessel vasculitis that can be seen in patients with HCV"
"Patients with cryoglobulinemic vasculitis have deposition of immune complexes in the skin, peripheral nervous system, and the kidney"
"The main symptomatic difference between cryoglobulinemic vasculitis and henoch-schonlein purpura is a lack of gastrointestinal symptoms"
"Patients with a 5a-reductase deficiency commonly also have a micropenis and hypospadias"
"Alprazolam, Lorazepam, Temazepam, and Oxazepam are benzodiazepines that have intermediate half lifes"
"Triazolam and Midazolam are benzodiazepines that have short half lives"
"Diazepam, Chlordiazepoxide, and Flurazepam are benzodiazepines that have long half-lives"
"Amaurosis fugax presents with a painless, transient, monocular vision loss that is caused by a small embolus to the ophthalamic artery"
"Inhaled anesthetics with higher arteriovenous gradient have a slower onset of action"
"Inhaled anesthetics with lower arteriovenous concentration gradient have a faster onset of action"
"The 5 to 3' exonuclease activity of prokaryotic DNA polymerase I is to remove the RNA primer"
"Thoracic outlet syndrome most commonly occurs due to compression of structures within the scalene triangle"
"The trunks of the brachial plexus and subclavian artery pass through the anterior and middle scalenes (scalene triangle)"
"Pregnancy may cause stress incontinence due to increased intraabdominal pressure and hormone induced relaxation of urethral tone / pelvic floor muscles"
"In a patient with stress incontinence, laughing, coughing, and other exertions precipitate leakage due to increases in intra-abdominal pressure"
"Increased urinary frequency in pregnancy is due to β-hCG stimulated production of relaxin, which increases GFR by increasing renal circulation"
"In pregnancy, the sciatic nerve may become compressed due to: - increased joint laxity from circulating relaxin - changes in maternal posture (ex. spinal lordosis)"
"Stimulant intoxication can present with paranoid ideation and thus must be differentiated from primary psychiatric disorders"
"Dengue fever and chikungunya viral infections typically occur simultaneously, as both are transmitted by the Aedes mosquito"
"Histopathology of mesothelioma will show tumor cells with numerous, long slender microvilli and abundant tonofilaments"
"Grossly, mesothelioma most commonly presents with nodular / smooth pleural thickening"
"Bronchial carcinoid tumor can appear histologically as sheets of uniform cells with a \salt and pepper\\" pattern\""
"Which AIDS opportunistic infection stains acid-fast? Mycobacterium avium complex"
"Mycobacterium avium complex grows best at 41°C"
"Elevated PTH may produce a(n) “salt and pepper” appearance of the skull on radiograph image"
"Histoplasmosis prophylaxis in HIV/AIDS patients is started at CD4+ counts < 150, using itraconazole"
"Adults receiving parenteral nutrition are at high risk for fungal infection with Candida (candidemia)"
"Anorexia nervosa is separated into restricting and binge/purge subtypes"
"Is the decreased bone density seen in anorexia nervosa typically reversible? No"
"The first line treatment for narcolepsy is good sleep hygiene"
"Acute dystonia can lead to laryngospasm, requiring intubation"
"Lithium CNS toxicity can lead to slurred speech, as well as hyperreflexia and seizures"
"Patients experiencing lithium toxicity should first discontinue lithium, then be treated aggressively with isotonic saline"
"If a patient ingests a large amount of TCAs and this is caught immediately after ingestion, activated charcoal can be administered"
"Prolonged methamphetamine usage may be noticed on physical exam due to skin excoriations::derm finding"
"Patients on stimulants may develop tics::movement disorder"
"What features of extrapyramidal symptoms may be treated with benztropine and diphenhydramine? Acute Dystonia"
"What features of extrapyramidal symptoms may be treated with β-blockers, benzodiazepines, and benztropine? Akathisia"
"What features of extrapyramidal symptoms may be treated with benztropine and amantadine? Parkinsonism"
"What features of extrapyramidal symptoms may be treated with reserpine, tetrabenazine, or a switch to an atypical antipsychotic? Tardive Dyskinesia"
"Is bupropion associated with sexual side-effects? No"
"Naloxone can be given IM or as a nasal spray to treat an acute opioid overdose in an unconscious individual"
"Which fluid compartment is mainly composed of K+, Mg2+, organic phosphates (ex. ATP)? ICF"
"Which fluid compartment is mainly composed of Na+, Cl-, HCO3- and Albumin? ECF"
"Renal blood flow is usually 20-25 % of cardiac output"
"Plasma volume = TBV x (1 - HCT)"
"Syndrome of apparent mineralocorticoid excess can be treated with K+ sparing diuretics or corticosteroids"
"Angiotensin II acts on the hypothalamus to increase thirst"
"Which renal tubular acidosis is highly associated with congenital anomalies (obstruction) of urinary tract? Distal RTA (type 1)"
"Xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis is associated with Proteus as well as E. coli infections"
"Patients with renal osteodystrophy present with calciphylaxis, due to high serum phosphate binding with Ca2+ leading to metastatic deposits and lowered serum Ca2+"
"Is it possible for dizygotic twins to have different biological sexes? Yes"
"Is it possible for monozygotic twins to have two different biological sexes? No"
"Cauda equina syndrome is commonly due to epidural cord compression from a(n) malignancy"
"Patients with ataxia-telangiectasia have vitiligo, granulomas, and a high recurrence of sinopulmonary::location infections"
"A pregnant patient with an abrupt onset of extremely pruritic and urticarial papules and blisters most likely has pemphigoid gestationis"
"Patients with pemphigoid gestationis have an increased risk of maternal development of Graves disease"
"The pruritic papules and pustules in pemphigoid gestationis are characteristically located in the periumbilical region"
"Patients with pemphigoid gestationis have autoantibodies against hemidesmosomal proteins"
"The atlantoaxial joint is an important transitional zone in the cervical spine"
"Atlantoaxial instability may be seen in patients with down syndrome and rheumatoid arthritis"
"The atlantoaxial joint is stabilized by the transverse ligament, apical ligament, and alar ligaments"
"Patients with atlantoaxial instability can acutely present with neurological deficits due to spinal cord compression if their subluxation is worsened"
"Patients with diabetic neuropathy present with a slowly progressive decrease in vibratory sensation, proprioception, and temperature sensation"
"Patients with early diabetic neuropathy typically have decreased ankle reflexes"
"Patients with late diabetic neuropathy have widespread loss of reflexes with motor weakness"
"The atlantoaxial joint is often involved in rheumatoid arthritis as this joint provides a large amount of rotational mobility in the cervical spine"
"Normally, patients with atlantoaxial instability often develop neurologic deficits late in the disease"
"Pes anserine bursitis is commonly seen in runners and typically presents with anteromedial knee pain"
"The valsalva maneuver is executed by forcibly exhaling against a closed glottis, and then bearing down to increase intraabdominal/intrathoracic pressure"
"The valsalva maneuver increases intraabdominal and intrathoracic pressure predominantly by recruiting the rectus abdominis muscle"
"Which ethical principle revolves around treating persons fairly and equitably? Justice"
"Triage is an example where patients are not treated equally, but the core ethical principle of justice is intact"
"Which core ethical principle is encompassed by \do no harm\\"? Nonmalificence\""
"If there are risks to a medical action, can the principle of nonmalificence still be intact? Yes"
"Which ethical principle is encompassed by the fact that physicians have a special ethical (fiduciary) duty to act in the patients best interest? Beneficence"
"The ethical principle of beneficence may conflict with autonomy or what is best for society"
"Which ethical principle is encompassed by: - an obligation to respect patients as individuals - to create conditions necessary for autonomous choice - honor patients preference in accepting or not accepting medical care Autonomy"
"Patients who go undergo cystoscopy are especially at risk for infections caused by enterococcus species"
"Patients with opioid intoxication may experience bradycardia and hypotension"
"Is cervical dystonia typically painful? Yes"
"Cervical dystonia can be treated with local botulinum toxin injections"
"As opposed to acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, Guillain-Barré syndrome develops over the course of days to weeks once symptoms begin"
"Risk factors for maternal substance abuse during pregnancy include: - poor mental health and prenatal care - low socioeconomic status and lack of family support - HCV::virus"
"Should you screen universally for substance abuse in pregnant patients? Yes"
"Newborns with neonatal abstinence syndrome may have an uncoordinated suckling reflex"
"Newborns with neonatal abstinence syndrome may present with high-pitched crying, tremors, and can potentially develop seizures"
"Which branchial arch gives rise to the tensor veli palatini? 1st arch"
"Malignant otitis externa is an emergency that can progress to osteomyelitis of the skull base"
"Malignant otitis externa is most commonly seen in the diabetic population"
"Examples of the beers criteria include drugs that increase the risk of falls (benzodiazepines, opioids)"
"Examples of the beers criteria include drugs that increase the risk of C. difficile infections (PPIs)"
"When performing a suprapubic cystostomy, the surgical tools pierce through the anterior abdominal aponeurosis"
"Which cause of neonatal conjunctivitis presents within 24-48 hrs of birth? N. gonorrhoeae"
"Which cause of neonatal conjunctivitis presents within 7-14 days of birth? Chlamydia trachomatis"
"In a baby whose mother had untreated gestational diabetes, upon delivery neonates can develop transient hypoglycemia"
"Neonatal hyperinsulinism in the setting of uncontrolled gestational diabetes can lead to macrosomia"
"If a patient has hyper/hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, will they have: - Uterus? +::+/-? - Breasts? -::+/-?"
"If a patient has uterovaginal agenesis in genotypic female OR androgen insensitivity in genotypic male, will they have: - Breasts? +::+/-? - Uterus? -::+/-?"
"If a patient has insufficient production of testosterone and is a male genotype, will they have: - Breasts? -::+/-? - Uterus? -::+/-?"
"The prognosis of gynecologic tumor epidemiology can be remembered with the mnemonic: CEOs often go from best to worst as they get older Cervical > Endometrial > Ovarian"
"A bartholin cyst may develop into a(n) abscess secondary to obstruction and inflammation"
"Primary ovarian insufficiency is associated with chromosomal abnormalities, especially in those younger than 30"
"Patients with primary ovarian insufficiency have the following serology: - Estrogen - decreased - LH - increased - FSH - increased"
"Patients with long standing COPD who are administered excessive oxygen can develop hypercapnia"
"COPD patients with oxygen induced hypercapnia have increased physiologic dead space due to excess oxygen"
"The blood supply to the proximal ureter comes from the renal artery"
"The blood supply to the distal ureter is the superior vesical artery"
"The blood supply to the middle 1/3 of the ureter is variable"
"In a renal transplant a patient presenting with fever and leakage of urine into the pelvic cavity 5 - 10 days following the transplant most likely has distal ureteral ischemia"
"Which healthcare payment model involves patients paying for each individual service? Fee-for-service"
"Which healthcare payment model involves a healthcare organization receiving a set amount per service to be divided among all providers and facilities involved? Bundled payment"
"Capitation is the payment structure underlying health maintenance organization (HMO) provider networks"
"Payers may negotiate a capitated contract with a(n) insurance company that then pays the providers, or a(n) large medical group may negotiate directly with the payer"
"Cervicitis classically presents with no symptoms"
"Cervicitis is detected by pelvic examination and NAAT"
"Cervicitis is most commonly caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae and chlamydia trachomatis"
"Treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease prevents the progression of infection to the uterus and fallopian tubes::anatomical site"
"Treatment of cervicitis with azithromycin and ceftriaxone covers the classic infections and prevents progression to pelvic inflammatory disease"
"Treatment of tuberculosis with isoniazid can result in mycobacteria losing their \acid-fastness\\""
"Isoniazid works to treat tuberculosis by inhibiting mycobacterial cell wall production"
"Which ENaC inhibitor increases calcium reabsorption? Amiloride"
"All organisms in the mycoplasma genus (ex ureaplasma urealyticum) lack cell walls and thus are resistant to agents that target the cell wall"
"In patients with normal adrenal function, the metyrapone stimulation test results are increased ACTH and increased 11-deoxycortisol"
"Can morning stiffness be experienced in patients with osteoarthritis? Yes"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is characterized by diffuse musculoskeletal pain that worsens with weather changes, psychological stress, or reduced sleep? Fibromyalgia"
"What is the most effective way to begin a medical interview? Open-ended question"
"In the united states, the majority of overdose deaths are caused by opioids"
"Fractures of the orbital floor can damage the infraorbital nerve"
"The infraorbital nerve is a continuation of the maxillary nerve that runs across the orbital floor"
"Fractures to the orbital floor can cause enophthalmus"
"Fractures to the orbital floor can entrap the inferior rectus muscle, impairing vertical gaze"
"Fractures to the orbital floor most commonly result from direct frontal trauma to the orbit due to assault, motor vehicle crashes, or sports injuries"
"Time elapsed from initial exposure or pathogenic insult to clinical manifestation of disease is known as: - incubation period in infectious disease - latent period in noncommunicable chronic diseases"
"In infectious diseases, the incubation period is generally short"
"In noncommunicable chronic diseases, the latent period may be long"
"Can autism occur without language and intellectual impairment? Yes"
"Failed vertical fusion of the paramesonephric ducts within the urogenital sinus results in a(n) transverse vaginal septum"
"What is the effect of bicornuate uterus on fertility? Decreased"
"Which cause(s) of painless genital ulceration present with intracytoplasmic inclusions? Klebsiella granulomatis; Chlamydia L1-L3 (LGV)::2"
"Which cause(s) of painful genital ulceration present with intranuclear inclusions? HSV BONUS: what are those intranuclear inclusions? cowdry bodies (HSV is a herpesviridae)"
"Which cause(s) of painless genital ulceration present with painful inguinal lymph nodes (buboes)? Chlamydia L1-L3 (LGV)"
"On gross examination, glioblastomas are soft and poorly defined with areas of necrosis and hemorrhage"
"Brain metastases are commonly seen as multiple well-circumscribed tumors at grey-white matter junction"
"Ménière disease is thought to be due to defective resorption of endolymph"
"Especially strong forces in a low ankle sprain can cause joint instability by injuring additional ligaments"
"The Achilles tendon is formed from the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles and acts in plantar flexion"
"The achilles tendon can be injured with sudden forces during strenous activities"
"Forced eversion of the ankle most commonly causes an avulsion fracture of the medial malleolus"
"An intraductal papilloma is a proliferation of papillary cells that develop in ducts or cyst wall with a(n) fibrovascular core"
"Fibrocystic changes frequently cause cyclic breast pain without nipple discharge"
"On histology, the stromal proliferation in fibroadenomas compresses the ducts"
"Up to 50% of patients with müllerian defects will have a coexisting urologic anomaly"
"The most common pulmonary function test indicator of obesity related disease is a reduction in expiratory reserve volume"
"The reduction of respiratory compliance in obesity is in part due to a reduction in chest wall compliance, due to increased weight"
"The reduction of respiratory compliance in obesity is in part due to a reduction in lung compliance due to microatelectasis"
"To compensate for reduced lung compliance, obese patients have rapid::rate-shallow::depth breathing"
"Ricin is a potent toxin that inhibits protein synthesis by cleaving the rRNA component of the eukaryotic 60S subunit"
"Lead poisoning in adults often presents with bluish pigmentation at the gum-tooth line"
"Lead poisoning in adults often presents with wrist / foot drop due to peripheral neuropathy"
"When taking a patients sexual history, should you make assumptions about patients sexual orientation? NO!"
"In patients with limb compartment syndrome, early diagnosis and fasciotomy are necessary to prevent permanent and disabling injury"
"The most common site for limb compartment syndrome is the anterior compartment of the leg"
"The common peroneal nerve splits into the deep peroneal nerve (supplying the anterior compartment) and the superficial peroneal nerve (supplying the lateral compartment)"
"The superficial peroneal nerve supplies the dorsum of the foot"
"The superficial peroneal nerve innervates the peroneus (fibularis) longus and brevis muscles"
"The deep peroneal nerve innervates the webspace between the hallux and 2nd digit"
"The deep peroneal nerve supplies the tibialis anterior muscle"
"The amino acid asparagine is essential for rapidly dividing tumor cells"
"MERRF is a mitochondrial disorder that presents with myoclonic seizures and myopathy associated with exercise"
"Progressively weakening diaphragmatic contractions during maximal voluntary ventilation with intact phrenic nerve stimulation indicates either/or: #1 - Pathology of the neuromuscular junction #2 - abnormally rapid diaphragmatic muscle fatigue"
"Compression / neuropathy of the phrenic nerve results in uniform weak inspirations during maximal voluntary ventilation"
"Women who are in the postpartum period are at particularly high risk of developing myasthenia gravis"
"In cognitive testing; providing name, location, & current date would test the patients orientation"
"In cognitive testing; asking the patient to follow multi-step commands would test their comprehension"
"In cognitive testing; having the patient recite the months of the year backwards would test concentration"
"Which cause(s) of painless genital ulceration present with painless inguinal lymph nodes? Treponema pallidum (Syphilis)"
"Which cause(s) of painless genital ulceration presents without inguinal lymph node enlargement? Klebsiella granulomatis (donovanosis)"
"The inactivated influenza vaccine results in humoral (antibody)::cell-mediated or humoral response to the hemagglutinin antigen"
"The inactivated influenza vaccine results in antibody production that inhibits viral entry (into host cells) via binding to hemagglutinin"
"The injected influenza vaccine induces a(n) humoral::humoral and/or cell-mediated response"
"The intranasal influenza vaccine induces a(n) humoral and cell-mediated::humoral and/or cell-mediated response"
"Which influenza vaccine can result in CD8+ T-cell response? Live, intranasal vaccine"
"Chronic interstitial nephritis is typically seen with patients who've been taking NSAIDs for a long time"
"Patients with chronic interstitial nephritis have a(n) mild elevation of BUN and creatinine due to a(n) mononuclear infiltrate of tubules causing fibrosis and atrophy"
"What syndrome is caused by a faulty urothelium, resulting in dysuria, urinary urgency, and urinary frequency? Interstitial Cystitis"
"Sulfonamides, methotrexate, IV acyclovir, and triameterene are agents that can precipitate in renal tubules, causing renal failure"
"If the confidence interval does not include the null value, the result is statistically significant"
"What is the most effective preventative intervention in almost all patients in reducing mortality risk? Smoking cessation"
"What is the most common complication of Turner Syndrome? Bicuspid aortic valve (20-30%)"
"Patients with asherman syndrome will present with decreased fertility"
"Which calcium channel blocker is used as a tocolytic? Nifedipine"
"Which NSAID is used as a tocolytic? Indomethacin"
"Tocolytics are generally used to decrease contraction frequency in preterm labor"
"Two easy ways of preventing medication errors are instructing physicians to avoid the use of unsafe abbreviations and trailing zeros"
"In which congenital GI disorder do bacteria invade the colonic wall causing extensive bowel necrosis and death? Necrotizing enterocolitis"
"Crossover studies are especially suited for eliminating confounding bias"
"Which parasitic infection can present with cysts in the brain? Neurocysticercosis (Taenia solium)"
"What is the effect of estrogen on bone mineral density? ↑ bone mineral density"
"HPV has a predilection for stratified squamous epithelium"
"Deficiency of dopamine hydroxylase in the catecholamine synthesis pathway causes a rare form of dysautonomia characterized by ptosis, orthostatic hypotension, hypoglycemia, and hypothermia"
"Patients with phenylketonuria develop hypopigmentation of what brain nuclei? Catecholaminergic brain nuclei"
"What flow-volume pattern would diffuse intraalveolar hemorrhage cause? Restrictive"
"What kind of flow volume pattern would compression atelectasis cause? Restrictive"
"What flow volume pattern would alveolar hyaline membranes (ARDS) cause? Restrictive"
"Capsaicin cream can be used to treat post-herpetic neuralgia"
"Capsaicin causes excessive activation of TRPV1, resulting in defunctionalization of nociceptive nerve fibers"
"Capsaicin causes release and subsequent depletion of substance P"
"Neurofibromatosis 1 can present with bony abnormalities; including sphenoid dysplasia, scoliosis, and congenital pseudoarthrosis"
"Rotation of the ovary around the infundibulopelvic ligament causes ovarian torsion"
"The main risk factor for ovarian torsion is the presence of a(n) large ovarian mass"
"A patient with ovarian torsion will typically present with sudden onset unilateral pelvic pain and nausea"
"What is the first-line diagnostic test for ovarian torsion? Pelvic ultrasound"
"During pregnancy, a woman may experience intermittent sharp pain due to sudden movements of the stretching round ligament"
"What aging related condition can help improve mild myopia? Presbyopia"
"Conditions that increase red blood cell turnover can cause falsely low HbA1c in patients with diabetes mellitus"
"Glycogenolysis and skeletal muscle contraction are synchronized via intracellular accumulation of Ca2+ following neuromuscular stimulation"
"The incidence of pancreatic cancer in women has slowly increased over the last century"
"Vernet syndrome, which presents with dysfunction of cranial nerves 9, 10, and 11, is due to lesions of the jugular foramen"
"The deep branches of the posterior cerebral artery supply the thalamus, splenium, parahippocampal gyrus, and fusiform gyrus"
"Insomnia can be treated in multiple nonpharmacologic ways, including establishing good sleep hygiene"
"Insomnia can be treated in multiple nonpharmacologic ways; including stimulus control therapy"
"Insomnia can be treated in multiple nonpharmacologic ways; including relaxation techniques (ex. abdominal breathing, mental focus on peaceful image, contracting muscles and relaxing them in sequence)"
"Insomnia can be treated in multiple nonpharmacologic ways; including sleep restriction"
"To prevent the development of oral thrush after using inhaled corticosteroids, what two interventions can be used? Spacer, Rinsing Mouth"
"What vitamin can be prescribed for Alzheimers disease to slow functional losses? Vitamin E (tocopherol)"
"Reducing sugars (ex. fructose, galactose, glucose) can be detected in the urine by a(n) copper reduction test"
"Mutant huntingtin protein in Huntington's Disease leads to transcriptional repression by inhibiting histone acetyltransferase"
"In cognitive testing; having the patient recall 3 unrelated words after 5 minutes would test short-term memory"
"In cognitive testing; asking the patient to provide details of significant life events tests long term memory"
"In cognitive testing; asking the patient to write a complete sentence with noun-verb agreement tests language skills"
"in cognitive testing; asking the patient to draw intersecting pentagons tests visual-spatial skills"
"In cognitive testing; asking the patient to draw a clock oriented to the time requested tests executive function"
"Merocrine glands release their watery secretory product via exocytosis"
"Salivary glands, eccrine sweat glands, and apocrine sweat glands are all example of what type of exocrine gland? Merocrine"
"Apocrine glands release membrane bound vesicles containing the secretory product"
"Mammary glands are what type of exocrine gland? Apocrine"
"Holocrine glands release the entire contents of their cytoplasm and cell membrane via cell lysis"
"Sebaceous glands and meibomian glands are what type of exocrine gland? Holocrine"
"Osteosarcomas account for 20% of primary bone cancers"
"Osteosarcomas present as a(n) painful::painful/painless enlarging mass or pathologic fractures"
"During the Canalicular phase of lung development, pneumocytes develop starting at 20 weeks"
"Club cells are located in the bronchioles"
"Corticosteroids are important for fetal surfactant production and overall lung development"
"In conditions that cause destruction of the pulmonary vasculature, hemosiderin laden macrophages may be seen in the alveoli"
"The bacterial organisms vibrio vulnificus and aeromonas hydrophila may cause cellulitis related to freshwater / seawater exposure"
"Which childhood exanthem can present with a fine, blanching rash developing after a sore throat? Scarlet fever (GAS)"
"Which antibiotic depolarizes bacterial cell membranes via creation of transmembrane channels? Daptomycin"
"Intracellular bacterial proliferation of M. tuberculosis is most likely to occur 1 week(s) after exposure"
"CD4+ Th cell response to M. tuberculosis is most likely to occur 2-4 week(s) after exposure"
"Which cause(s) of painful genital ulceration present with painful inguinal lymph nodes? Chancroid (H. ducreyi)"
"Which cause of genital ulceration presents with gray or yellow exudate? Chancroid (Haemophilus ducreyi)"
"Loss of ATIII in nephrotic syndrome can predispose patients to renal vein thrombosis"
"Patients with nephrotic syndrome are especially vulnerable to pneumococcal infections"
"What congenital abnormality arises due to hyperplasia of the frontonasal prominence? Orbital hypertelorism"
"CD14 is a marker of the monocyte-macrophage cell lineage"
"Selective muscarinic antagonists (ex. glycopyrrolate, hyoscyamine, propantheline) can be used to reduce side effects of cholinesterase inhibitors where they are mediated by activation of muscarinic receptors"
"Which form of diabetes mellitus is characterized by weight loss? Type 1 Diabetes"
"Which glucose test is preferred for general use? Fasting glucose"
"Which glucose test is the preferred screening method for gestational diabetes / CF-diabetes? 2 hour oral glucose test"
"Injury to the long thoracic nerve can occur during: #1 - stab wounds #2 - axillary lymph node dissection #3 - chest tube insertion"
"What is the effect of normal aging on chest wall compliance? Decreased compliance"
"What is the effect of normal aging on residual volume? Increased RV"
"What is the effect of normal aging on FVC? Decreased"
"What is the effect of normal aging on FEV1? Decreased"
"What is the effect of normal aging on total lung capacity? No change"
"Can normal aging cause a ventilation/perfusion mismatch? Yes"
"How does normal aging change the A-a gradient? Increased A-a gradient"
"How does normal aging change respiratory muscle strength? Decreased"
"Ankylosing spondylitis can cause restrictive lung disease due to limited chest wall expansion"
"Many patients with ankylosing spondylitis develop peripheral arthritis and enthesitis (inflammation at tendon insertion into a bone)"
"Trisomy 13 does not::does / does not have overlapping fingers"
"The lung apices extend above the first rib and clavicle"
"The accessory nerve may be injured during surgery involving the posterior triangle of the neck"
"The ansa cervicalis arises from C1-C3 nerve roots"
"The ansa cervicalis innervates the strap (infrahyoid) muscles of the anterior neck"
"Penetrating trauma to the neck above the cricoid cartilage can injure the ansa cervicalis"
"Patients with oppositional defiant disorder deliberately::deliberately or do not deliberately? annoy others and blame others::themselves or others? for their mistakes / misbehavior"
"Uterine rupture can be palpated as an opening in the uterine wall"
"One risk factor for uterine rupture is a prior c-section::operation"
"A full-thickness disruption of the uterine wall that typically presents with intense, acute abdominal pain, profuse vaginal bleeding, and fetal distress is most likely what condition? Uterine rupture"
"Once methotrexate enters the target cell, it undergoes polyglutamation, preventing the movement of MTX out of the cell"
"Because propofol is highly lipophilic, it quickly accumulates in tissues receiving high blood flow, and then is quickly redistributed to organs receiving less blood flow"
"Respiratory complications are the most common cause of death in patients with ALS"
"Before the median nerve enters the wrist / hand deep to the flexor retinaculum, it travels through the forearm between the flexor digitorum superficialis and the flexor digitorum profundus"
"Which cause of pneumonia can cause a high fever with watery diarrhea in a smoker? Legionnaires' disease"
"The median nerve gains access to the forearm in the medial aspect of the antecubital fossa and then immediately courses between the humeral / ulnar heads of the pronator teres muscle"
"The most common type of metastases to the bone from Small Cell Lung Cancer are blastic::lesion type"
"Decreased peripheral conversion of levodopa may cause hallucinations::CNS side effect"
"Mutations in the env gene enable HIV to escape from host neutralizing antibodies"
"Clonality of T lymphocytes can be determined by looking for T-Cell Receptor rearrangement"
"From lateral to medial the three major structures within carotid sheath includes the internal jugular vein, vagus nerve, and the common carotid artery Bonus: what is in the fascia?"
"DRESS syndrome occurs 2-8 weeks after drug exposure"
"Patients with DRESS syndrome present with fever, generalized lymphadenopathy, facial::location edema, and diffuse morbilliform skin rash"
"Patients with DRESS syndrome with eosinophilia, atypical lymphocytosis, and elevated ALT"
"Commonly associated drugs with DRESS syndrome include phenytoin::anticonvulsant, carbamazepine, allopurinol, sulfonamides"
"The dorsal scapular nerve provides motor innervation to the rhomboids (retract the scapula) and the levator scapulae muscles (elevate the scapula)"
"The thoracodorsal nerve provides motor innervation to the latissimus dorsi, which acts in shoulder extension, adduction, and internal rotation"
"Carbon monoxide poisoning can be treated with 100% O2 or hyperbaric O2"
"What is the most common infectious cause of fetal pleural effusion, pulmonary hypoplasia, and ascites? Parvovirus B19"
"Sulfur granules of Actinomyces stain basophilic on H&E stain"
"Which branching, filamentous bacteria is associated with dental caries and resultant aspiration pneumonia? Actinomyces"
"HIV-associated dementia can result in activation of microglial cells that form nodules"
"What is the most important bacterial factor of Shigella in regards to causing Shigellosis? Mucosal invasion"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon is characterized by virus A receiving nucleocapsid proteins from virus B intracellularly? Phenotypic mixing"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon is characterized by virus A and virus B exchanging genes between two chromosomes? Recombination"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon is characterized by virus A and virus B exchanging genomic segments intracellularly? Reassortment"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon is characterized by virus A providing a functional protein to replace the nonfunctional virus B protein? Complementation"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon can cause antigenic shift? Reassortment"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon is exhibited by HBV providing HBsAg for HDV? Complementation"
"During viral phenotypic mixing, will the viral progeny display changes? No"
"During viral recombination, will the viral progeny display changes? Yes"
"During viral reassortment, will the viral progeny display changes? Yes"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon is exhibited by acquisition of a new viral surface protein (e.g. sialic acid receptors)? Phenotypic mixing"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice for diagnosing mucormycosis? Mucosal biopsy"
"Which invasive infection can present similarly to mucormycosis (paranasal sinus necrosis)? Invasive aspergillosis"
"Tendonitis of which muscle presents as tenderness at the bicipital groove? Biceps tendonitis"
"What is the relationship between the mean, median, mode in a positively skewed distribution? Mean > median > mode"
"What is the relationship between the mean, median, and mode in a negatively skewed distribution? Mean < median < mode"
"Other signs of a leukemoid reaction include basophilic::color peripherally located \döhle bodies\\" in neutrophils"
"Loxoscelism describes a necrotic wound and less commonly fever, malaise, anemia that is caused by a(n) brown recluse bite"
"Febrile seizures are the most common neurological disorder affecting children"
"Are children who experience febrile seizures at a high risk of developing epilepsy? No"
"When treating febrile seizures, is supportive care or active cooling primarily indicated? Supportive care"
"In heat stroke, the hypothalamic set point is normal"
"Patients develop heat stroke due to heat production exceeding heat dissipation"
"When treating heat stroke, is supportive care or active cooling primarily indicated? Active cooling"
"Heat stroke may cause permanent end-organ-damage, since above 108*F oxidative phosphorylation ceases"
"If a child is at significant risk for harm, are you as the physician justified in obtaining a court injunction to proceed with life-saving treatment even when the parents do not want this? YES"
"What is the best method of achieving pregnancy in a patient who has Turner Syndrome? In Vitro Fertilization"
"hCG therapy can be used to induce ovulation by triggering the ovaries to release the mature eggs"
"Patients who are undergoing IVF with ovulation induction (ex. hCG therapy) are rarely at risk of developing ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome"
"A vasectomy is a male contraceptive surgical technique which transects the vas deferens, preventing transport of new sperm from the epididymis"
"Can a patient have viable sperm in their ejaculate in the months after vasectomy? Yes"
"Does a vasectomy change the volume of ejaculate substantially? No"
"Can a vasectomy be reversed? Yes"
"The most common type of hair loss in males and females is androgenetic alopecia"
"What kind of inheritance do patients with androgenetic alopecia exhibit? Polygenic"
"The most important steps in working up a metabolic alkalosis are: - determining the patient's volume status for saline responsiveness - checking the urine chloride levels"
"The saphenous nerve is the largest pure sensory branch of the femoral nerve and supplies the medial aspect of the leg"
"Damage to the corpus callosum can result in a lack of interhemispheric communication (ex. patient unable to retrieve with one hand an object palpated with the other)"
"Lesions to the temporal lobe may result in: - deficits in verbal memory (ex. word recognition) if the dominant lobe is affected - deficits in nonverbal memory (ex. musical ability) if the nondominant lobe is affected"
"Absence seizures are characteristically provoked by hyperventilation"
"Blunt cardiac injury is defined as trauma to the thoracic cage, resulting in cardiac injury"
"In a blunt cardiac injury, the right ventricle is the most common structure to be injured, while the aortic valve is the most common valve to be injured"
"What type of virus is Hepatitis B? Partially double-stranded DNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"Upon cellular entry, partially dsDNA of HBV is repaired and used for transcription"
"The genome of the HBV intermediate from dsDNA is + ssRNA"
"Which viral genetic phenomenon occurs in segmented viruses? Reassortment"
"What protein is responsible for the rate limiting step in steroidogenesis? StAR (Steroidogenic acute regulatory protein)"
"Anthracyclines (-rubicin) bind topoisomerase II::specific to cause cleavage of DNA"
"The neurogenic symptoms of hypoglycemia are caused by sympathoadrenal activation and are mediated via neurotransmitters from sympathetic postganglionic nerve fibers"
"The neuroglycopenic symptoms of hypoglycemia include behavioral changes, confusion, visual disturbances, stupor, and seizures"
"Persistent hypoglycemia causes the activity of higher brain centers to decrease"
"Because prolonged CNS hypoglycemia leads to irreversible neurological deficits and death, multiple counter-regulatory systems are activated in response"
"During a tubal ligation: an opening is made within a nonvascular portion of the mesosalpinx below the isthmic portion of the fallopian tube in order to ligate a segment of the tube"
"The round ligaments are clamped and divided as they enter the peritoneum of the broad ligament during a hysterectomy"
"Phencyclidine (PCP) is a hallucinogen that works primarily as a(n) NMDA receptor antagonist"
"What are the two most common causes of osteomyelitis in health-care related vertebral osteomyelitis associated with intravascular devices? Staph aureus, CoNS"
"A(n) CT Myelogram is typically used to diagnose spinal stenosis or other vertebral pathology (ex. osteomyelitis) in patients who cannot undergo MRI"
"An unaffected individual (with unaffected parents) who has a sibling affected by an autosomal recessive condition has a(n) 2/3 chance of being a carrier for that condition"
"The psoas muscle originates from the anterior surface of the transverse processes / lateral surface of the vertebral bodies at T12-L5"
"The psoas muscle combines with the iliacus muscle around the level of the inguinal ligament to form the iliopsoas muscle"
"Temporomandibular disorder (TMD) can arise from problems involving: - temporomandibular joint derangement - pathologic contraction of muscles of mastication - mandibular nerve hypersensitivity"
"Patients with temporomandibular disorder that involve the mandibular nerve can have both jaw pain and otologic symptoms"
"In the action potential of axons, K+ ion permeance is highest during the repolarization phase of the action potential"
"Myotonic Dystrophy involves an abnormal expression of myotonin protein kinase::enzyme"
"Patients with long-standing COPD have decreased sensitivity to PaCO2"
"In patients with long standing COPD, the main contributor to respiratory drive is arterial PaO2 levels"
"When supplemental oxygen is administered to a patient with longstanding COPD, the rapid increase in PaO2 can reduce peripheral chemoreceptor stimulation"
"Chronic hemolysis can lead to iron deposition in the kidney (this process is known as hemosiderosis)"
"Cyanide poisoning is usually due to inhalation injury"
"Cyanide inhibits aerobic metabolism, resulting in hypoxia unresponsive to supplemental O2"
"Patients with cyanide poisoning present with an \almond\\" breath odor and reddish skin discoloration\""
"In exercise, O2 exhibits mixed-limited gas exchange"
"In exercise, blood is flowing faster through the pulmonary capillaries, resulting in it taking a(n) longer::shorter or longer time for capillary O2 concentration to maximize"
"In a healthy patient, can exercise alone make patients hypoxemic? No"
"Infections in the sphenoid or ethmoid sinus may extend to the cavernous sinus and cause complications"
"Because the facial vein is valveless, infections of the face can spread to the cavernous sinus"
"Patients with septal deviation are predisposed to rhinosinusitis"
"Rhinosinusitis most commonly affects the ethmoid sinus in children"
"Patients who develop pulmonary emboli may develop right heart strain that generates a(n) S1Q3T3 ECG finding"
"In chronic bronchitis, the DLCO is usually normal"
"In emphysema, the DLCO is usually decreased"
"In asthma, the DLCO is normal or increased"
"Which cause of crescentic glomerulonephritis may also cause a restrictive lung disease? Goodpasture syndrome"
"Sarcoidosis may present with a(n) rheumatoid arthritis-like arthropathy"
"Inhalation injury is often a complication from smoke inhalation from fires or other noxious substances"
"Inhalation injury results in the development of chemical tracheobronchitis, pulmonary edema, and pneumonitis"
"On physical exam, many patients with inhalation injury have singed nasal hairs"
"Many patients with inhalation injury present secondary to burns, CO inhalation, cyanide poisoning, or arsenic poisoning"
"At 18 hours after inhalation injury, bronchoscopy will typically show severe edema, congestion of bronchi, and soot deposition"
"At 11 days after inhalation injury, bronchoscopy will typically show resolution"
"Which three pneumoconioses increase the risk for Caplan syndrome? Coal worker's pneumoconiosis, Asbestosis and Silicosis"
"Which two pneumoconioses increase the risk for cor pulmonale? Berylliosis and Silicosis"
"Bronchial carcinoid tumor is peripherally OR centrally located"
"One complication associated with lung cancer is pericardial effusion, which can lead to obstructive shock"
"During which phase of the natural history of lobar pneumonia is the exudate composed of mostly bacteria? Congestion"
"During which phase of the natural history of lobar pneumonia is the exudate composed of fibrin, bacteria, RBCs, and WBCs? Red hepatization"
"During which phase of the natural history of lobar pneumonia is the exudate composed of WBCs, lysed RBCs, and fibrin? Gray hepatization"
"A tension pneumothorax may lead to increased intrathoracic pressure, leading to decreased cardiac function"
"The Kozak sequence is a consensus sequence in eukaryotes that surrounds the start codon and aids translation initiation"
"For the Kozak consensus sequence (gccgccRccAUGG) to work properly, the R group positioned 3 bases upstream must be a(n) purine"
"Physical activity / exercise, inadequate food intake, excessive insulin dose can precipitate hypoglycemia in patients with insulin treated diabetes"
"Infection, pain, and sleep deprivation can precipitate hyperglycemia in patients with insulin treated diabetes"
"Exercise / muscle contraction upregulate GLUT4 expression in muscle tissue only, allowing for glucose to meet metabolic demand"
"Patients with prolonged, untreated obstructive sleep apnea can develop pulmonary hypertension and a resultant right heart failure"
"Dupuytren's contracture is a slowly progressive fibroproliferative disease of the palmar fascia that results in contractures that draw the 4th and 5th fingers into flexion"
"Patients with cryptorchidism typically have the testis remain in the abdomen or the inguinal canal"
"Wound contractures may occur when there is unusually pronounced MMP activity and myofibroblast accumulation in wound margins"
"Signs of embolism following an invasive vascular procedure is suspicious for atheroembolic disease"
"Stimulation of the hypoglossal nerve can be used as a therapy for obstructive sleep apnea by increasing the diameter of the oropharyngeal airway"
"Obstructive sleep apnea is due to relaxation of pharyngeal muscle tone during sleep"
"What is the treatment for Tetrodotoxin and Ciguatoxin poisoning? Supportive care"
"Microscopic evaluation of Kaposi Sarcoma will reveal highly vascular tissue with elongated spindle cells"
"Adenomyosis grossly presents with a uniformly enlarged, soft, globular uterus"
"A rectocele is prolapse of the posterior vaginal wall that can cause constipation"
"What pharmacotherapy can be used for the acute treatment of agitation / psychosis associated with delirium? Antipsychotics"
"Patients with psoas abscesses frequently position themselves to minimize psoas stretching and discomfort by engaging hip flexion and positioning into lumbar lordosis"
"Signs and symptoms of a psoas abscess include fever, back / flank pain, inguinal mass, and difficulty walking"
"Risk factors for psoas abscess include HIV infection, IVDU, and diabetes mellitus"
"The most important factor for prognosis of a transitional cell carcinoma is the degree of invasion"
"Cardiothoracic surgery is the most common cause of iatrogenic phrenic nerve injury"
"Rectal and sublingual administration have such high bioavailability because drugs will bypass portal circulation*"
"In the absence of ADH, the highest osmolarity in the glomerular apparatus occurs at the bottom of the loop of Henle"
"The most common side effect of erythropoetin stimulating agents is hypertension"
"Patients on erythropoesis-stimulating agents are associated with increased risk for thromboembolic events due to increased blood viscosity"
"The longer life of reticulocytes in anemia can be corrected for by corrected reticulocyte count / maturation time (reticulocyte production index)"
"Tuberculosis can cause cavitary lung lesions due to release of proteases, NO, and ROS from granulomas"
"What is the bacteria that is most often the culprit in post basilar skull fracture meningitis? Strep pneumoniae"
"Besides hyaline membranes, loss of surfactant contributes to alveolar collapse in ARDS"
"One multifactorial cause of secondary pulmonary hypertension is due to compression of the pulmonary vasculature by a tumor"
"Cataracts often result in glare and decreased vision, especially at night"
"Lesser actions of the superior oblique muscle are abduction and intorsion"
"Cheyne-Stokes breathing is defined by respirations that oscillate between apnea and hyperpnea in response"
"Sleep apnea is diagnosed via polysomnography, where a patient sleeps in a monitored setting and a number of related measurements are taken"
"What cells synthesize the myelin for cranial nerve I? None"
"What is the equation for attributable risk percent in the exposed (ARPexposed)? ARPexposed = 100 x [(RR-1)/RR]"
"Sterile pyuria is characterized by WBCs in urine with no bacterial growth"
"Which bacteria (2) present with WBCs in urine but NO bacteria (sterile pyuria)? N. gonorrhoeae, Chlamydia trachomatis"
"Can prions be killed via autoclaving? No"
"Can bacterial spores be killed via autoclaving? Yes"
"Biopsy of a lesion in syphilis (at all stages) will reveal proliferative endarteritis of small vessels with surrounding lymphocytes and plasma cells"
"Silver staining or gram-staining of the gastric mucosa can reveal H. pylori"
"Infected CD4+ T cells (and macrophages, dendritic cells) are killed by CD8+ T-cells in HIV"
"In the Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction, rapid lysis of spirochetes triggers a strong immunologic response (results in fever, chills after abx administration)"
"Which type of vaccine is used for Hepatitis B? Subunit (recombinant HBsAg)"
"For effective discharge planning, a(n) social worker should be consulted to determine what non-medical factors are affecting the patients ability to return home (ex. transportation, safety, support systems)"
"Parinaud syndrome can manifest with a \sun-set\\" sign"
"Patients with parinaud syndrome can present with a(n) convergence-retraction nystagmus"
"Exogenous testosterone causes increased hematocrit"
"Patients taking exogenous testosterone can develop hormone imbalances, resulting in small testes, low sperm count, and gynecomastia"
"Patients with medically intractable symptoms (ex. bradykinesia, rigidity) of Parkinsons disease may benefit from deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the Globus pallidus internus or the subthalamic nucleus"
"In order to expedite delivery, a midline episiotomy may be performed that transects from posterior vaginal opening to the perineal body"
"The perineal body is essential to the integrity of the pelvic floor"
"Improper repair of a midline episiotomy may result in pelvic organ prolapse or dyspareunia"
"Women with severe perineal lacerations are at risk for fecal incontinence due to anal sphincter damage"
"What muscle is cut during a mediolateral episiotomy? Transverse perineal muscle"
"Digital clubbing is often associated with prolonged hypoxia"
"HDV is a deltavirus that causes hepatitis"
"An obstructive lesion caused by incomplete degeneration of the central portion of the fibrous tissue band connecting the walls of the vagina is known as a(n) imperforate hymen"
"If undiagnosed at birth, an imperforate hymen presents with primary amenorrhea and cyclic abdominal / pelvic pain due to accumulation of menstrual blood in the vagina / uterus"
"Do patients with an imperforate hymen typically have abnormal secondary sexual development? No"
"Cumulative incidence = (# of new cases over a specific period) / (number of people at risk at the beginning of the period)"
"Which virus can present with swollen gums and inflamed lesions on the hard palate and lips? HSV-1"
"Patients with cyanide poisoning have a(n) narrowing of the venous-arterial PO2 gradient"
"Photoaging results in gradual thinning of the epidermis, allowing the stratum corneum to become dessicated"
"Irritation of the phrenic nerve can refer pain to the C3-C5 shoulder region (Kehr sign) and cause hiccups"
"Ether and other organic solvents can disrupt the envelope of a virus, resulting in loss of infectivity"
"Increased lung volumes result in increased pulmonary vascular resistance"
"During expiration, decreased lung volumes result in a(n) increase in extra-alveolar vessel resistance"
"Pulmonary vascular resistance is lowest is near the Functional Residual Capacity::which lung parameter"
"The ideal site for a femoral nerve block is in the inguinal crease at the lateral border of the femoral artery"
"Anal squamous cell carcinoma often presents with rectal bleeding and a visible ulcerative mass"
"Anal carcinoma presents with proctitis with tenesmus and bloody discharge"
"If there is suspicion for child abuse, what should be your next step? Ask permission to interview the child alone"
"Food poisoning via Clostridium botulinum toxin can block both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors"
"Anti-cholinergic medication effects (e.g. TCAs) can result in a(n) no change in compound muscle action potential following motor nerve stimulation"
"Clostridium botulinum toxin is associated with the 5 Ds: 1. Diplopia (anti-cholinergic) 2. Dysphonia (anti-cholinergic) 3. Dysphagia (anti-cholinergic) 4. Dry mouth (anti-muscarinic) 5. myDriasis (anti-muscarinic)"
"What type of diarrhea is seen in Legionnaires' disease? Watery"
"Septic abortion results from retained products of conception"
"What pathology can result in individuals with recent abortion that develop fever and foul-smelling vaginal discharge? Septic abortion"
"Septic abortion is commonly caused by S. aureus, E. coli (gram negatives), and S. agalactiae"
"Clostridium botulinum toxin can result in a(n) decreased compound muscle action potential following motor nerve stimulation"
"Dermatological manifestations of reactive arthritis include hyperkeratotic vesicles on the palms and soles (keratoderma blennorhagicum), and a serpiginous annular dermatitis of the glans penis (circinate balanitis)"
"Reactive arthritis may cause sacroiliitis in about 20% of cases, resulting in axial pain in the lower back / buttocks region"
"ACL injures are characterized by rapid-onset hemarthrosis and knee swelling"
"Are ACL injuries most commonly contact or noncontact? Noncontact"
"Spinal stenosis occurs most commonly in the lumbar region"
"The symptoms of lumbar spinal stenosis are most commonly elicited when walking"
"The symptoms of lumbar spinal stenosis are exacerbated when the lumbar spine is extended, and relieved when the lumbar spine is flexed"
"Spinal stenosis is most commonly due to osteoarthritis of the spine, whereupon the ligamentum flavum hypertrophies and compresses nerve roots"
"The anterior longitudinal ligament is the spinal ligament most commonly injured in whiplash injuries (ex. car accident / rugby tackle)"
"Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis is a(n) restrictive lung disease where proteinaceous material fills the alveoli"
"Primary pulmonary alveolar proteinosis is most commonly due to a defect in macrophages"
"Sarcoptes scabiei causes scabies"
"Which parasite commonly affects the webspace of the fingers and feet? Scabies"
"Scabies causes pruritis that is worse at night::during the day/at night"
"Scabies is common in children::demographic and crowded populations"
"Scabies is transmitted through skin-to-skin contact most commonly, or via fomites"
"The pruritis of Scabies is worse at night due to a(n) delayed, type IV HSR"
"Pediculus humanus and Phthirus pubis are lice that cause intense pruritis"
"Which anti-scabies/louse therapy causes neuronal membrane depolarization? Permethrin"
"Which anti-scabies/louse therapy inhibits Na+ channel deactivation? Permethrin"
"Which anti-scabies/louse therapy inhibits acetylcholinesterase? Malathion"
"Which anti-scabies/louse therapy blocks GABA channels? Lindane"
"What are two infectious causes of erythema multiforme? HSV #1; Mycoplasma #2"
"Which bacteria is associated with Stevens-Johnson syndrome? Mycoplasma pneumoniae"
"Colloid cysts are a pathologically benign tumor usually found in the 3rd ventricle"
"On histology, cyst formation and rare mitoses are found in colloid cysts"
"Circumstances in which confidentiality is not maintained are: - Threats to self and / or others - Knife or gunshot wounds - Diagnosing a reportable communicable disease - Suspected abuse - Patient has a signed a(n) waiver"
"Are infertility, nulliparity, and postmenopausal hormone therapy protective factors or risk factors for surface epithelial ovarian cancer? Risk factors"
"Are the following protective factors or risk factors for surface epithelial ovarian cancer? Protective factors - Combined oral contraceptives - Multiparity - Breast feeding"
"In a supracondylar fracture of the humerus, anterolateral displacement of the proximal fracture fragment typically results in damage to the radial nerve"
"In a supracondylar fracture of the humerus, anteromedial displacement of the proximal fracture fragment typically results in damage to the median nerve"
"Because the brachial artery is paired with the median nerve at the elbow, supracondylar fractures of the humerus that displace anteromedially may result in a pulseless hand"
"Supracondylar fractures most often occur after hyperextension injuries of the arm / elbow"
"Obstruction / damage to the brachial artery can result in fingers / wrist being flexed into a(n) claw-like contracture"
"Volkmanns ischemic contracture is a result of scarring / stiffening / shortening of the forearm muscles"
"Patients with volkmann ischemic contracture have significant pain with passive extension of fingers / wrist"
"Biceps tendon injury and rupture typically occur following sudden extension of a(n) flexed elbow while contracting the biceps"
"In the hospital, patients with multi-drug resistant organisms, enteric organisms, and scabies require contact precautions"
"Patients with Clostridioides difficile infections require extra contact precautions, in that hand washing must be done with soap and water"
"Treating patients affected by microbial infections that can be aerosolized and remain suspended in air for extended periods requires a(n) respirator"
"Treating patients with microbial infections that are transmitted by droplets and remain suspended in air for limited periods requires a(n) simple facemask"
"Patients with kallmann syndrome most commonly have mutations in the KAL-1 or FGFR-1 genes"
"On a non-contrast head CT, acute bleeding appears as hyperattenuated (bright) lesions"
"Hypertensive encephalopathy is characterized by a(n) progressive headache and nausea / vomiting followed by nonlocalizing neurologic symptoms"
"When performing thoracentesis, it should ideally be performed: - Midclavicular line above the 8th rib - Midaxillary line above the 10th rib - Paravertebral line / posterior scapular line above the 12th rib"
"The bleeding time test has been replaced by the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100)"
"The thrombin time is prolonged in patients with deficient or defective fibrinogen"
"What animal is rabies virus (rhabdovirus) most commonly associated with? Bats"
"Which virus caused by bats and raccoons commonly causes dysphagia, muscle spasms, and coma? Rabies (rhabdovirus)"
"The skin findings in McCune-Albright syndrome will be uni::uni/bilateral"
"Patients with hydatiform moles may present with pelvic discomfort, vaginal bleeding, and hyperemesis"
"Lesions to the glossopharyngeal nerve result in loss of sensation of the middle ear cavity"
"The micturition reflex describes the process of urination"
"The sacral micturition center is responsible for bladder contraction during the initiation of urination"
"The pontine micturition center coordinates relaxation of the external urethral sphincter with bladder contraction during voiding"
"The medial frontal micturition center in the cerebral cortex regulates the pontine and sacral micturition centers"
"Resistance to cephalosporins and aztreonam is typically accomplished by Extended-Spectrum β-Lactamases (ESBL)::specific that are encoded on plasmids"
"Large doses of vitamin C can give false negative stool guaiac results"
"Chronic tic disorder involves one or more motor OR verbal tic (but not both) for > 1 year"
"Patients with diabetic ketoacidosis have increased bicarbonate reuptake"
"Pinpoint pupils are usually associated with large bilateral pontine lesions caused by damage to the hypothalamospinal tract"
"A person who is taking levothyroxine surreptitiously will present with an atrophic thyroid and undetectable serum thyroglobulin"
"Oseltamivir / zanamivir also prevent influenza by impairing viral penetration of mucous secretions that overlie the respiratory epithelium"
"The orbital floor is composed of a very thin layer of bone that separates the orbit from the air-filled maxillary sinus"
"The two most common places of fracture in the orbit are the medial wall and the orbital floor"
"What cause of viral gastroenteritis is more commonly seen in unvaccinated children? Rotavirus"
"What cause of viral gastroenteritis is more commonly seen in vaccinated children? Norovirus"
"What cause of viral gastroenteritis is more commonly seen in adults? Norovirus"
"What is the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in developed countries? Norovirus"
"What is the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in developing countries? Rotavirus"
"A necrotizing skin condition of diabetes mellitus that occurs more commonly in women is necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum"
"Major risk factors for parotitis include dehydration, intubation (elderly postoperative patients), and anti-cholinergics"
"Parotitis usually presents with acute onset of firm and erythematous pre/postauricular swelling"
"Parotitis can present with elevated serum amylase"
"A diagnosis of parotitis is confirmed by imaging (ultrasound / CT)"
"When patients who have been chronically taking PPIs withdraw from usage, they may experience rebound gastric acid hypersecretion"
"Cutaneous angiosarcoma is a malignant tumor associated with chronic lymphedema"
"Cutaneous angiosarcomas are described as firm, violaceous::color nodules"
"Glucocorticoids can cause atrophy of the dermal layer of the skin"
"In female infertility testing; levels of anti-müllerian hormone (MIF) can be used to determine ovarian reserve"
"In the context of a metabolic acidosis; the delta-delta ratio to determine the presence of a secondary metabolic disorder = (AG-12)/(24-[HCO3])"
"Cryptococcus neoformans assumes a(n) yeast form (with a polysaccharide capsule)"
"Cytotoxic edema is a(n) intracellular edema caused by impaired function of Na/K-ATPase pumps on neuronal cell membranes"
"Does a healthcare proxy overrule all other decision makers regardless of family relationships? Yes"
"Hyperkalemic and hypokalemic periodic paralysis are examples of ion channel myopathies"
"Febrile neutropenia is a fever with an absolute neutrophil count < 500 /mm3 often seen during chemotherapy"
"The most commonly identified pathogens in febrile neutropenia are gram positive bacteria"
"The most effective strategy for decreasing adverse outcomes and preventing avoidable readmissions is a structured approach that uses a comprehensive discharge checklist"
"Cystic fibrosis may present with hyponatremia"
"What is the treatment for cryptogenic organizing pneumonia (COP)? Oral corticosteroids"
"In testing for infertility; ovulatory function may be gauged by testing mid luteal phase serum progesterone level"
"Ovarian reserve can also be tested by determining day 3 of menstrual cycle FSH / Estradiol levels"
"In female infertility testing: a hysterosalpingogram (HSG) is primarily used to determine fallopian tube patency"
"In female infertility testing; saline infusion sonohysterography is the preferred method of diagnosing abnormalities of the uterine cavity"
"Bladder irrigation is used for patients with hematuria to prevent the formation of blood clots"
"Most disorders of the urea cycle require arginine as an essential amino acid, particularly during episodes of hyperammonemia"
"In nearly all patients, an interscalene nerve block also causes transient ipsilateral diaphragmatic paralysis"
"In the assessment of decision making capacity, a patient should be able to: - communicate a choice - understand information given - appreciate consequences - rationale is given for decision"
"Pro-carcinogens are often metabolized to their active form via cytochrome p450 monooxygenase::enzyme"
"How does the activity of acetylcholinesterase change with lowered temperatures? Decreased"
"Are cavernous hemangiomas typically symptomatic or asymptomatic? Asymptomatic"
"A good rule of thumb for the relationship between GFR and serum creatinine is that everytime GFR halves, serum creatinine doubles"
"Which type of necrosis is associated with bacterial (e.g. Klebsiella) lung abscesses? Liquefactive"
"Which type of necrosis is associated with TB, fungal, and Nocardia lung abscesses? Caseous"
"Which antibiotics are chelated by cations (Ca2+, Fe2+, Mg2+)? Tetracyclines; Fluoroquinolones"
"The antibiotics fluoroquinolones and tetracyclines should not be consumed with cations (Ca2+, Fe2+, Mg2+)"
"Alcohol disrupts the envelope of viruses"
"What aggressive variant of squamous cell carcinoma can develop at sites of chronic inflammation / previously traumatized or scarred skin? Marjolins ulcer"
"Which two inhaled anaesthetics are preferred in patients with asthma? Halothane and sevoflurane"
"Endometriosis spread to the uterosacral ligaments can result in a fixed, retroverted uterus"
"What is the most common inflammatory condition of the pituitary gland? Lymphocytic hypophysitis"
"What is the best interventional strategy for prevention of neonatal tetanus? Maternal vaccination w/ toxoid vaccine"
"What is the best interventional strategy for treatment of neonatal tetanus? Abx and passive anti-tetanospasmin Ig::2"
"When is the first DTaP vaccine usually given? ~2 months of age"
"Which gram-positive bacteria contains granules that stain with aniline dyes (e.g. methylene blue)? Corynebacterium diphtheriae"
"Patients with Lambert-Eaton Syndrome present with autonomic symptoms (dry mouth, constipation, impotence)"
"The majority of patients (>60%) with Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome have involvement of the oculobulbar cranial nerves"
"The Pouch of Douglas is the furthest point of the abdominopelvic cavity in women, and is typically where infections and fluids collect"
"Patients with pelvic inflammatory disease or a ruptured ectopic pregnancy may have culdocentesis performed to extract and ascertain the fluid contents"
"Is codeine by itself bioactive? No"
"In the following group of diseases, what is the most likely ratio of conjugated bilirubin : total bilirubin? <20% Gilbert Syndrome / Crigler-Najjar Physiologic Jaundice of Newborn Hemolysis"
"In the following group of diseases, what is the most likely ratio of conjugated bilirubin : total bilirubin? 20-50% Viral Hepatitis"
"In the following group of diseases, what is the most likely ratio of conjugated bilirubin : total bilirubin? >50% Drugs (ex. OCPs) Dubin-Johnson / Rotor Primary Biliary Cholangitis Obstruction (ex. gallstone)"
"What lymph node cluster drains the apex of the tongue, floor of the mouth, and lower lip? Submental lymph nodes"
"What lymph node cluster drains the cheeks, gums, anterior tongue, anterior nasal cavity, and soft tissue of the midface? Submandibular lymph nodes"
"What lymph node cluster drains the nasal cavity, nasopharynx, and auditory tubes? Retropharyngeal lymph nodes"
"What lymph node cluster drains the oropharynx, hypopharynx, nasopharynx? Upper jugular chain nodes"
"Proximal tibial nerve lesions present with: - foot dorsiflexion - foot everted at rest - loss of foot inversion - weakness of the extrinsic muscles of the foot"
"The outpatient setting is the best place to begin a conversation about advanced care planning"
"When is an extremely important time to re-address advanced care planning for end-of-life issues? Hospital admission"
"What are the two components of advanced directives? - living will - healthcare proxy"
"The patients perception that a physician is uncaring is the most likely precipitating factor in a patients decision to file a malpractice lawsuit"
"High iron levels and inflammatory conditions increase the synthesis of hepcidin"
"Hypoxia and increased erythropoiesis act to lower hepcidin levels"
"Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) can be seen as a paraneoplastic syndrome in thymomas and lymphocytic leukemias"
"Herpes encephalitis is associated with increased lymphocytes / RBCs::cell type / types in the CSF"
"Herpes encephalitis is associated with increased protein in the CSF"
"Herpes encephalitis is associated with normal glucose in the CSF"
"Septic abortion refers to any type of abortion resulting in infected retained products of conception in the uterine cavity"
"Patients with septic abortion typically have fever, abdominal pain, uterine tenderness, and a foul-smelling vaginal discharge"
"The most common infectious causes of septic abortion are: - Gram negative bacilli (ex. E. coli) - staphylococcus aureus"
"Treatment of septic abortion includes broad spectrum antibiotics and prompt surgical evacuation"
"Lissencephaly (agyria) is a congenital absence of gyri that is typically accompanied by severe mental retardation and seizures"
"Congenital hydrocephalus often presents initially with macrocephaly, muscle hypertonicity and hyperreflexia, and a(n) bulging fontanelle"
"What is the treatment for congenital hydrocephalus? Ventriculoperitoneal shunt"
"Most of the venous drainage from the myocardium traverses the coronary sinus (CS), which delivers deoxygenated blood to right atrium"
"Any factor that causes increased right atrial pressure will cause coronary sinus dilation"
"Pelvic fractures can injure the anterior bladder wall, resulting in extra-peritoneal leakage of urine"
"Abdominal trauma can result in superior bladder wall rupture, result in intra-peritoneal leakage of urine"
"What is the most common cause of intracranial hemorrhage in children? Brain arteriovenous malformation"
"What form of parkinsonism presents with rapidly progressive gait dysfunction, falls, executive function loss, and vertical gaze palsy? Progressive supranuclear palsy"
"APC is a tumor suppressor that is a negative regulator of β-catenin and WNT pathway"
"CDKN2A is a(n) tumor suppressor gene::tumor suppressor gene/oncogene"
"DCC is a(n) tumor suppressor gene::tumor suppressor gene/oncogene in the step of adenoma -> adenocarcinoma of the colon"
"What is the single most important measure to reduce the risk of transmission of hospital-acquired infections? Hand hygiene"
"What rare neural tube defect is characterized by protrusion of the brain and meninges through an abnormal opening in the skull? Encephalocele"
"Brain arteriovenous malformations are developmental vascular lesions that present with intracranial hemorrhage, seizure, headache, or focal neurologic deficits"
"What disease presents with reduced sensitivity to pain, impaired tear formation, and orthostatic hypotension? Familial dysautonomia"
"Familial dysautonomia can be caused by a mutation at splice sites for the IKAP gene"
"Actinomyces-like organisms appear as clusters of basophilic thin filaments that resemble \cotton candy\\" on a pap smear\""
"What cells may be present on a pap smear particularly during menses? Endometrial cells"
"What cells are predominant in pap smears from postmenopausal women and postpartum women? Parabasal cells"
"The majority of the external ear receives sensory innervation via nerves derived from what two nerve roots? C2, C3"
"The auriculotemporal nerve supplies sensory innervation in front of the ear"
"The posterior part of the external auditory canal, concavity and posterior eminentia of the concha is innervated by the small auricular branch of the vagus nerve"
"Disinfestation of Scabies is achieved by laundering clothing and bedding in hot water"
"Which cause of sterile urethritis does not gram stain well? Chlamydia trachomatis"
"Which cause of sterile urethritis shows up on staining as gram (-) diplococci? N. gonorrhoeae"
"Classically, the first location affected in Clostridium tetani infection is the jaw"
"Secondhand smoke increases the risk of respiratory tract illnesses in children, most significantly otitis media and asthma"
"Patients with infective endocarditis can develop a nephritic syndrome due to deposition of circulating immune complexes"
"What type of studies assess the frequency of a given characteristic and a given outcome using population data? Ecological study"
"Can you use an ecological study to make conclusions regarding individuals within the populations of study? No"
"What type of study design starts with cohort studies in which participants are followed over time, and participants who develop an outcome of interest become cases for a case-control study? Nested case-control design"
"Patients with avascular necrosis of the femoral head will present with hip pain that is exacerbated by weight bearing"
"Will there be swelling, erythema, or warmth in the surrounding area of avascular necrosis of the femoral head? No"
"Microscopic analysis of avascular necrosis affected bone reveals dead bony trabeculae with empty lacunae"
"Patients with sarcoidosis may have scattered granulomas in their liver; most commonly affecting the portal triads"
"Is dating a patient ever okay? NO*"
"Are romantic relationships between psychiatrists (or medical professionals participating in a psychiatric role) and former patients ever ethical? ALWAYS NO"
"What is the most dangerous complication of a subarachnoid hemorrhage, if not the most common (30% of patients)? Rebleeding"
"A(n) cricothyrotomy is indicated when an emergency airway is required or orotracheal / nasotracheal intubation is unsuccessful / contraindicated"
"A cricothyrotomy establishes an airway between the cricoid and thyroid cartilages and requires an incision through (superficial to deep): 1) skin 2) superficial cervical fascia 3) investing and pretracheal fascial layers of the deep cervical fascia 4) cricothyroid membrane"
"A retropharyngeal abscess commonly presents with fever, neck pain, drooling, and cervical lymphadenopathy"
"Retropharyngeal abscesses most commonly affect children"
"Infections involving the retropharyngeal space can extend directly into the superior mediastinum and cause acute necrotizing mediastinitis"
"Patients in motor vehicle accidents may suffer from a \hangman's fracture\\""
"Colobomas are an embryological defect that is caused when the choroid fissure fails to close completely before the child is born"
"NF-kB activation pathway: IkB kinase phosphorylates the IkB-NF-kB complex, leading to ubiquitination of IkB"
"NF-kB activation pathway: Ubiquitination of IkB results in destruction of IkB and release of the NF-kB transcription factor"
"NF-kB activation pathway: the cascade of NF-kB activation is self limiting, as NF-kB stimulates transcription of more IkB"
"Histologically, anaplastic tumors typically have the presence of giant, multinucleated tumor cells"
"Indications for acute dialysis may be remembered with the mnemonic AEIOU: A - Acidosis E - severe Electrolyte abnormalities I - substance Intoxication O - volume Overload U - Uremic symptoms"
"A method of statistical analysis that pools summary data (ex. means, RRs) from multiple studies for a more precise estimate of the size of an effect is known as meta-analysis"
"A meta-analysis improves the strength of evidence and generalizability of study findings"
"Meta-analyses are limited by: - quality of individual studies - bias in study selection"
"Length time bias can be reduced via a randomized controlled trial that assigns subjects to the screening program or to no screening"
"Repetitive pronation / supination of the forearm can result in a(n) deep radial nerve palsy due to irritation by the superficial and deep parts of the supinator muscle"
"Palsy of the deep radial nerve as it travels through the supinator canal most commonly manifests with \finger drop\\"\""
"Mupirocin is a topical antibiotic that works by inhibiting isoleucine t-RNA synthetase"
"Cholesterol granulomas can form in the middle ear after hemorrhage and appear as bluish-black gelatinous material behind the tympanic membrane"
"What is the most common malignant tumor of the ear canal? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Treatment of friends should be limited to emergency situations when no other physician is available"
"When performing a maternal serum quadruple screen, accurate estimation of gestational age is very important to determine whether levels of analytes are abnormal"
"When tidal volume is limited, the respiratory control centers increase the respiratory rate to restore minute ventilation"
"The decrease in fertility in women after 35 is primarily due to diminishing quality / quantity of ovarian reserve"
"What is the most important variable affecting ovarian reserve? Advanced maternal age"
"A collapsed lung may present as a(n) completely opacified hemithorax on chest X-ray"
"Complete collapse of a lung usually occurs following obstruction of a mainstem bronchus"
"The major risk factor for renal artery stenosis is atherosclerosis"
"Patients with unilateral renal artery stenosis on imaging will have a characteristic renal size discrepancy"
"Patients with renal artery stenosis will present with abdominal and flank bruits"
"Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) is a toxic production of combustion; and poisoning is seen in firefighters, welders, and farm silo workers"
"TGF-α is a(n) epithelial::tissue and fibroblast::cell growth factor"
"Testing for PD-L1 expression guides immunotherapy in advanced non-small cell carcinomas of the lung"
"An EGFR \driver mutation\\" is especially common in Asian::race female non-smokers::smoking status who have adenocarcinomas of the lung\""
"Testing for \driver mutations\\" in adenocarcinoma of the lung guides systemic therapy in advanced disease\""
"4% of patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma have a(n) inversion of chromosome 2 that creates an fusion gene between EML4 and ALK"
"Patients with lung cancers with a EML4-ALK fusion protein are typically seen in young non-smokers::smoking status"
"Lung cancers with a EML4-ALK fusion protein are typically EGFR negative::positive or negative? / KRAS negative::positive or negative? *bonus: treat with..?"
"Patients with cavernous hemangiomas in the brain are at risk of developing an intraparenchymal hemorrhage"
"Patients with an intervertebral disc herniation affecting the L5 or S1 nerve roots will have a positive straight leg raise test"
"Constrictive Pericarditis typically causes right::left/right heart failure due to restrictive diastolic filling"
"Spinal metastases present with back pain that is worse at night, and is not::is / is not relieved by position changes / analgesics"
"Patients with vertebral osteomyelitis will present with focal back tenderness and constitutional symptoms"
"Granulosa cell tumors have a scattering of theca cells, which give the mass a yellow color on gross inspection"
"Should you ever treat active tuberculosis with a monotherapy? NO!"
"Isoniazid can be given as a monotherapy for tuberculosis ONLY when there is a(n) positive PPD and a(n) negative chest x-ray"
"What type of advanced directive is placed by a physician and indicates that a patient should not go under CPR: including both basic life support and advanced cardiac life support? Do not resuscitate (DNR) order"
"Patients with neuroblastomas can have orbital metastases resulting in proptosis and / or periorbital ecchymosis"
"Patients with neuroblastomas may have metastases that cause spinal cord compression due to epidural invasion"
"\Myocardial stunning\\" describes the period of the hours to days after an MI when contractility is low in the heart\""
"Amiodarone may cause cryptogenic organizing pneumonia"
"Incorporation of Hepatitis B into hepatocytes causes inactivation of the p53 tumor suppressor protein"
"What abnormal heart sound is associated with a stiff left ventricle (e.g. LV hypertrophy due to prolonged hypertension)? S4"
"Volume overload in the heart causes eccentric hypertrophy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled diabetes that presents with overflow incontinence with a high post-void residual volume (> 50 mL)? Diabetic autonomic neuropathy"
"Fetal alcohol syndrome and DiGeorge syndrome may predispose to Tetralogy of Fallot::which primary immunodeficiency?"
"One component of the McCune-Albright triad is polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, characterized by bone pain and fractures"
"Li-Fraumeni syndrome is inherited in a(n) autosomal dominant fashion"
"Which MSK disorder may present with arrhythmias, flat affect, lid lag, and excessive daytime sleepiness? Myotonic dystrophy"
"Decreasing VA/Q may be due to a(n) R to L shunt"
"Increased VA/Q results in alveolar dead space"
"Naive B-cells migrate to secondary lymphoid organs"
"Primary immunodeficiency::Immunology disorder increases the risk for autoimmune disease, malignancy, and infection *bonus: what is the most common malignancy seen?"
"Symptoms of LEAD poisoning: Lead Lines Encephalopathy and Erythrocyte basophilic stippling Abdominal colic and sideroblastic Anemia Drops- wrist and foot drop. Dimercaprol and EDTA are 1st line of tx"
"Succimer is used for (lead) chelation in kids"
"Hereditary spherocytosis will show decreased mean fluorescence of RBCs in eosin 5-maleimide (EMA) binding test"
"Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate increases::increases or decreases in inflammatory conditions"
"Slippage in a template strand will cause a(n) deletion"
"Slippage in a replicated strand will cause a(n) insertion"
"Depurination results in the loss of purine bases"
"Deamination of 5-methyl cytosine forms thymine"
"CML presents with decreased RBCs"
"Capecitabine is the prodrug of 5-FU"
"Immune thrombocytopenia can be treated with the TPO receptor agonists eltrombopag and romiplostim"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is most often inherited in a(n) autosomal dominant pattern"
"The Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS) is defined by ≥2 of the following: Temp: >38℃ or <36℃ HR: >90 bpm WBC: >12,000 or <4000 or immature forms >10% RR: >20 breaths/min or PaCO2 <32 mmHg"
"What is the most common cause of spontaneous lobar (parietal/occipital) hemorrhage in the elderly? Cerebral amyloid angiopathy"
"Multiple Sclerosis may present with Lhermitte's sign, characterized by electric shock sensation running down the spine upon neck flexion"
"Macrolides adverse effects include a(n) rash::skin finding and eosinophilia::CBC abnormality"
"Macrolides may increase the serum concentration of theophylline or oral anticoagulants"
"Sulfa drugs can cause a drug-induced lupus"
"Melanocytes pack melanin into melanosomes in the stratum basale and transport them through dendrites to deposit melanin throughout the epidermis::where?"
"Which neuromuscular junction pathology is characterized by fluctuating muscle weakness? Myasthenia Gravis::MG or LEMS"
"If a patient's ptosis is due to myasthenia gravis, application of a(n) ice pack over the eyelids will result in improvement in ptosis"
"Which fungus is shown below? Candida albicans (germ tubes)"
"Which fungus is shown below? Blastomyces dermatitidis"
"Which fungus is shown below? Aspergillus fumigatus"
"Which fungus is shown below? Candida albicans"
"Which fungus is shown below? Coccidioides immitis"
"Which fungus is shown below? Histoplasma"
"Which fungus is shown below? Rhizopus"
"Which fungus is shown below? Cryptococcus -- in India ink"
"Which fungus is shown below? Malassezia furfur"
"Familial melanoma is commonly a result of mutations in CDKN2A on chromosome 9, which causes loss of p16 (tumor suppressor gene)"
"Diagnosis of Guillain–Barré syndrome is made by clinical findings, CSF analysis, and nerve conduction studies"
"Polymyositis::MSK disorder commonly affects proximal muscles of the shoulders (e.g. difficulty getting up from a chair)"
"Chondrosarcomas::which bone tumor? commonly arise from the proximal femur, pelvis and hip"
"Advanced rheumatoid arthritis may cause fibrous ankylosis (near-fused joints) and pannus (fibrovascular synovial hyperplasia)"
"Mixed connective tissue disease commonly affects adult women::demographic with shared features of SLE, systemic scelerosis, and polymyositis"
"Type 2 ('senile') osteoporosis is characterized by normal osteoclast activity with decreased osteoblast activity"
"Type 1 'postmenopausal' osteoporosis is due to lack of estrogen and release of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1)"
"The T score in DEXA scanning is a comparison of a patient's bone density to a young adult"
"Hereditary angioedema may be diagnosed by ↓ C4 levels::lab and confirmed with ↓ C1 inhibitor protein or function::lab"
"Chronic systemic hypertension may display concentric hypertrophy that leads to hypertensive heart disease"
"In chronic mitral regurgitation (compensated), how do the following change? - preload = increase - ejection fraction = increase"
"Early involvement of cutaneous small-vessel vasculitis may present with palpable purpura::skin"
"Type IIa familial dyslipidemia presents with increased levels of LDL and cholesterol"
"Type IIb familial dyslipidemia presents with increased levels of LDL, cholesterol and VLDL"
"Constrictive pericarditis may cause right::right/left heart failure leading to hepatomegaly::organ effect due to rigid pericardium preventing ventricular expansion and restricting diastolic::diastolic/systolic filling"
"Heavier menstrual bleeding is a side effect associated with copper intrauterine devices"
"What effect does the passive leg raise maneuver have on the intensity of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy murmurs? Decreased intensity"
"Amaurosis fugax (painless, transient \descending curtain\\" pattern of vision loss) may be seen in giant cell arteritis::vasculitide\""
"Prominent pulmonary vessels, patchy bilateral airspace opacities, blunting of the costophrenic angles, & fissure sign are CXR findings in what pathology? Acute decompensated HF (left-sided HF)"
"What may be seen in the early stages of atherosclerosis in a young male patient (as early as second decade of life)? Fatty streaking"
"Aortic dissection can propagate proximally to the aortic root resulting in aortic regurgitation, evidenced by new onset decrescendo diastolic murmur"
"Ascending aortic aneurysms are most often due to cystic medial necrosis (due to aging) and connective tissue disorders"
"What vasculitide may present with palpable purpura, livedo reticularis and subcutaneous nodules? Polyarteritis nodosa (seen in 33% of patients)"
"The current indications for operative/endovascular repair of an AAA include rapid rate of expansion, presence of symptoms, and aneurysm size > 5.5 cm"
"1. Disaggregation of polysomes (dissociation of rRNA from mRNA) 2. Myofibril relaxation 3. Disaggregation of nuclear granules & clumping of nuclear chromatin 4. Triglyceride droplet accumulation 5. Glycogen loss The above changes are signs of reversible::reversible/irreversible myocyte injury"
"Normal aging is associated with the degradation of elastin and accumulation of collagen and calcium in arterial walls, which commonly presents as isolated systolic hypertension in the elderly"
"Endothelial dysfunction (e.g. left-sided HF) leads to a(n) increase in vasoconstrictive mediators and a(n) decrease in vasodilative mediators"
"What is the diagnosis of a patient with abrupt cartoid distension and collapse on physical exam and \pistol-shot\\" femoral pulses upon auscultation? Aortic regurgitation\""
"Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is characterized by ↑::↑↓ LV mass ↓::↑↓ LV cavity size, and preserved::↑↓ EF"
"Perfusion only during diastole, high O2 extraction and tightly coupled O2 demand and blood flow is characteristic of cardiac::skeletal/cardiac muscle"
"A granulomatous, lymphocytic infiltrate with microabscesses and thrombus formation leads to obliteration of vessel lumen in thomboangiitis obliterans (Buerger disease)::which vasculitide?"
"Endothelial and fibroblast cell death cause calcification on the aortic valve"
"What is the shape and description of a murmur produced by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? \harsh\\" systolic crescendo-decrescendo murmur\""
"Myxomatous degeneration may cause mitral valve prolapse and mitral regurgitation due to rupture of chrodae tendinae"
"Venous congestion and tissue ischemia can result in venous stasis dermatitis"
"What heart sound is the best indicator of severity in patients with acute MR? S3 **bonus: absence of this can exclude what murmur?"
"TTN gene mutations in familial Dilated Cardiomyopathy are autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern"
"Subendocardial vacuolization and patchy fibrosis due to severe coronary artery disease may cause chronic ischemic heart disease"
"The hippocampus (CA1 pyramidal neurons)::area of the brain and cells is affected first in hypoxic stroke due to high metabolic demand"
"Descending aortic aneurysms are usually due to underlying atherosclerosis"
"Hypotension, clear lungs, and kussmaul sign are clinical findings right ventricular failure immediately after a myocardial infarction"
"Subendothelial collagen and glycosaminoglycans (form the subendothelial fibrous cap over an atherosclerotic plaque) are potent platelet activators"
"When subendothelial collagen and glycosaminoglycans are exposed, they contribute to rapid thrombus formation"
"Chronic neurohumoral activation induces increased levels of angiotensin II, ADH, aldosterone & norepinephrine results in cardiac remodeling **bonus: how?"
"Hemangiomas::What lesion(s)? consist of nonencapsulated aggregates of closely packed, thin-walled capillaries"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy may present with mural thrombi due to global hypokinesis and stagnation of blood flow in the left ventricle"
"What are the heart chamber sizes in restrictive cardiomyopathy & constrictive pericarditis? Normal ventricles & enlarged atria"
"Valvular thickening, nonbacterial vegetations, nonbacterial endocarditis and CAD (MI) are cardiac manifestions of antiphospholipid antibody syndrome"
"Aortoiliac occlusion is characterized by a triad of bilateral hip, thigh, and buttock claudication, impotence, and absent/diminished femoral pulses"
"Mirizzi syndrome is defined as a cystic duct stone that compresses or fistulizes into the common hepatic duct"
"Propionic acidemia is a defect in the enzyme propionyl-CoA carboxylase"
"What is the mode of inheritance of Propionic acidemia? Autosomal recessive"
"Propionic acidemia results in increased levels of propionyl-CoA and decreased levels of methylmalonic acid"
"Propionic acidemia presents with poor feeding, vomiting, hypotonia, anion gap metabolic acidosis::blood pH pathology, hepatomegaly and seizures"
"The treatment for propionic acidemia is a low protein diet that does not include valine, methionine, isoleucine, or threonine"
"Diagnosis of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is confirmed via bone marrow biopsy showing > 10% clonal B cells"
"Constrictive pericarditis::heart condition and restrictive cardiomyopathy::heart condition present with a prominent \dip-and-plateau sign\\" in the y descent on jugular venous pulse tracing\""
"Mitral regurgitation is often due to ischemic heart disease (post-MI) and LV dilatation"
"Type I collagen makes up scar tissue and dermis * bonus: what type makes up skin?"
"Parinaud syndrome presents with lid retraction, intact accommodation, and impaired pupillary constriction with light"
"What is released from macrophages that leads to inflammation & fibrosis in pneumoconiosis (e.g. silica)? Cytokines (PDGF, IGF)"
"Which pulmonary disorder is characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of small airways with connective tissue plugs? Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia"
"What is the etiology of Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia? Etiology unknown"
"Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia presents subacutely with fever, weight loss, dyspnea, and cough due to lymphocytic inflammation of small bronchiolar walls"
"Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia may lead to alveolar collapse due to connective tissue plugs in small airways"
"The radiologic and histologic pattern of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis may be referred to as usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP)"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is characterized by patchy interstitial fibrosis::histological apearance due to multiple fibroblastic foci"
"Systemic inflammation in RA may present with interstitial lung fibrosis::lung, pericarditis::heart, vasculitis::vascular and anemia of chronic disease::heme"
"Bronchial carcinoid tumor may present with coughing and hemoptysis due to projection into large bronchi"
"Cirrhosis will cause a(n) hypo-osmotic volume expansion::contraction/expansion"
"Nephrotic syndrome will cause a(n) hypo-osmotic volume expansion::contraction/expansion"
"Osmotic diarrhea (secondary to laxatives) will cause a(n) hyper-osmotic volume contraction::expansion/contraction"
"Diabetes insipidus will cause a(n) hyper-osmotic change with euvolemia::contraction/expansion"
"Uncontrolled diabetes (HHS, DKA) will cause a(n) hyper-osmotic volume contraction::contraction/expansion"
"Uncontrolled diabetes (HHS, DKA) will cause ECF volume to decrease"
"How does ICF volume change with uncontrolled diabetes (HHS, DKA)? Decreased"
"What is the effect of hyperglycemia on serum sodium levels? Decreased (hyponatremia)"
"Mutation-selection equilibrium is an equilibrium that occurs when the rate of deleterious allele mutations equals the rate at which the deleterious alleles are eliminated by selection"
"Immune reconstitution syndrome (seen in immunosuppressed patients), is where the immune system begins to recover, but then responds to a previously acquired opportunistic infection with an overwhelming inflammatory response"
"Cyclic neutropenia is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance condition where there are cycles of neutropenia"
"Patients with selective IgA deficiency may develop anaphylaxis due to blood transfusions::what treatment?"
"Intrapulmonary silicotic nodules will appear as weakly (+)::+/- birefringent particles under polarized light"
"During the early phase of an acute asthma exacerbation, histamine::first chemical mediator to take effect increases bronchoconstriction, airway edema, and mucus secretion"
"Surface alveolar growth is also called lepidic growth pattern"
"Lateral scapular winging::condition is due to spinal accessory nerve (CNXI)::nerve dysfunction that causes weakness of the trapezius"
"The borders of the quadrangular space of the shoulder are: medial: long head of triceps lateral: humeral shaftsuperior: teres minorinferior: teres major"
"The axillary nerve and  posterior humeral circumflex artery pass through the quadrangular space of the shoulder"
"A(n) pectoralis major rupture often occurs in weightlifters and presents with weakness with aDduction::movement and internal rotation::movement"
"Triceps tendon injury and rupture typically occurs following forceful eccentric contraction or FOOSH"
"Biceps tendon injury and rupture typically occur following sudden extension of a flexed elbow while contracting the biceps"
"A(n) ulnar collateral ligament tear is often caused by microtrauma from repetitive stresses like pitching a baseball"
"Cubital tunnel syndrome is the compression of the ulnar nerve at the elbow as it passes from the arm to the forearm between the medial epicondyle and olecranon process"
"MUTYH-associated polyposis is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance syndrome with multiple colorectal adenomas and an increased risk of colorectal cancer"
"Rumination syndrome is a functional gastrointestinal disorder characterized by effortless regurgitation of ingested food into the mouth after most meals."
"Cardiospasm is a spasm of the musculature of the cardia or epicardia that may produce partial or complete obstruction to the passage of food into the stomach"
"Hepatopulmonary syndrome is characterized by vasodilation of pulmonary capillaries because the liver is unable to metabolize NO and endothelin-1::2"
"Nephrotic syndrome may manifest as left renal vein thrombosis which can cause left varicocele"
"Chest X-ray showing 10+ posterior rib shadows, increased parenchymal radiolucency, and a lengthened cardiac silhouette = emphysema"
"IgA nephropathy (Berger Disease) may be treated with glucocorticoids"
"PSGN may display leukocyte (lots of nuclei present) infiltrate in the mesangium and endothelium on light microscopy"
"In diffuse proliferative glomerulonephropathy::nephritic syndrome, IgG and anti-dsDNA immune complexes may deposit in the subendothelial space"
"Treatment of diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis::which nephritic/nephrotic syndrome? with glucocorticoids and cyclophosphamide may slow progression to CKD"
"Light microscopy of membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN)::renal pathology shows hyper-cellularity and enlarged, lobular glomeruli"
"Which nephritic syndrome may be caused by infections (viral and bacterial) or autoimmune diseases? Membranoproliferative Glomerulonephritis (MPGN)"
"Which nephritic syndrome is associated with overactivation of the alternative complement pathway? MPGN II (dense deposit disease)"
"Immune-complex mediated glomerulonephritides (e.g. PSGN, DPGN, IgA nephropathy, HSP) may cause RPGN::nephritic syndrome"
"Segmental necrosis and breaks in glomerular basement membrane are histological changes seen in RPGN::nephritic syndrome"
"Crescent formation in glomeruli is caused by epithelial cell proliferation from the capsule (parietal) → obliterates Bowman's space = RPGN::nephritic syndrome"
"The next step in management for a patient with RPGN is immediate IV glucocorticoids::treatment"
"The presence of no P waves and a sine wave pattern on ECG is consistent with hyperkalemic emergency (>6.5 mEq/L) **bonus: next step?"
"What are the effects of vomiting, diarrhea or hyperventilation on serum potassium levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"Hypokalemia or Hyperkalemia::Serum potassium level can lead to muscle weakness, decreased deep tendon reflexes, and ascending paralysis (severe cases)"
"What effect does chronic kidney disease have on serum potassium levels? Increased (hyperkalemia)"
"What effect does chemotherapy have on serum potassium levels? Increased (hyperkalemia)"
"The \spike\\" appearance in membranous glomerulopathy::nephrotic syndrome is due to the basement membrane engulfing \\"domes\\" of subepithelial immune deposits\""
"In ATN, ischemia damages endothelial cells resulting in decreased NO and increased endothelin"
"Ischemic injury of the endothelium in acute tubular necrosis leads to vasoconstriction of the afferent arteriole"
"In ATN, ischemic injury results in vasoconstriction of the afferent arteriole, which impedes blood flow to the glomerulus"
"In ATN, sections of the nephron will show ruptured basement membrane and vacuolization of epithelial cells"
"The initiation stage of ATN is associated with fairly normal kidney function and urine output"
"The maintenance stage of ATN is associated with AKI (e.g. oliguria, increased creatinine, fluid overload, hyperkalemia)"
"The maintenance stage of ATN presents with increased serum creatinine and BUN levels"
"The recovery stage of ATN is characterized by tubular re-epithelialization"
"Rhabdomyolysis releases heme pigments into the bloodstream, which may cause acute tubular necrosis (nephrotoxic)::renal pathology"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with hypertension and palpable bilateral, non-tender, upper abdominal masses on physical exam? Autosomal dominant PKD (cysts enlarge over time)"
"Cysts of the pancreas and liver may be present in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease"
"Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease may present with diverticulosis of the colon and sigmoid colon"
"What is the the most common cystic disease in children? Renal dysplasia (abnormal development of one or both kidneys)"
"What congenital disorder presents with multiple cysts in the terminal collecting duct of the renal medulla? Medullary sponge kidney"
"The cysts in medullary sponge kidney develop in the terminal collecting duct"
"Cysts of autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease are lined by cuboidal epithelial cells"
"Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease is due to a(n) PKHD1 gene mutation, which codes for fibrocystin"
"Hip labral tears present with hip pain and mechanical snapping or locking in patients that are active, have acetabular dyplasia, or femoacetabular impingement"
"Avulsion fractures of the hip occur most commonly in pediatric/adolescent athletes from indirect trauma or forceful contractions"
"Hip dislocations commonly occur posteriorly::direction"
"Posterior hip dislocations commonly occur due to axial load through a(n) flexed knee"
"Posterior hip dislocations present with a flexed, adducted and internally rotated hip"
"Anterior hip dislocations present with a flexed, abducted and externally rotated hip"
"Anterior hip dislocations can be caused by hip abduction and external rotation::maneuver/movement"
"Femoral neck fractures present with a(n) abducted::abducted/adducted and externally rotated leg with shortening"
"The common peroneal nerve is commonly injured due a knee dislocation"
"The popliteal artery is commonly injured due to a knee dislocation"
"Sinding-Larsen-Johansson Syndrome is an overuse injury caused by inflammation of the apophysis located on the inferior pole of the patella"
"A positive Thompson test is when there is lack of plantar flexion when the calf is squeezed"
"Achilles tendon ruptures usually occur in the hypovascular watershed area 2-6 cm above the calcaneal insertion"
"Chronic kidney disease superimposed with uremia may present with anorexia, nausea and vomiting"
"Uremia, a consequence of renal failure, may cause severe pruritis and purpura of the skin"
"Chronic Kidney Disease may cause secondary hyperparathyroidism::endocrine disorder"
"What is the clinical definition of Chronic kidney disease? 3 months of reduced GFR (< 60mL/hr or Cr~2)"
"Polycystic kidney disease may compress the renal parenchyma and cause irreversible damage leading to chronic kidney disease::renal pathology"
"What measurement characterizes the 5 stages of CKD and what stage requires dialysis? GFR (mL/min); stage 5 (GFR < 15) requires dialysis::2"
"Bilateral renal artery stenosis may cause CKD due to ischemic nephropathy"
"Chronic pyelonephritis may present with CKD::renal pathology due to progressive renal scarring"
"Initial injury to the kidneys(s) results in adaptive hyperfiltration of the remaining healthy glomeruli, which eventually leads to interstitial fibrosis and glomerular scarring (CKD)"
"Acute kidney injury (pre-renal, intrarenal, or postrenal) leads to increased serum creatinine and/or decreased urine output"
"NSAIDs accumulate at the renal papillae of the kidney"
"Analgesic nephropathy is a renal complication of prolonged NSAID use causing free radical damage to the renal interstitium"
"Chronic NSAID use may cause calcification::CT imaging finding in renal papillae (in areas of chronic inflammation)"
"What are the most common renal pathologies seen with analgesic nephropathy? Papillary necrosis Chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis::2"
"Chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis causes CKD, resulting in bilaterally small::size scarred kidneys bilaterally"
"Acute interstitial nephritis may present with WBC casts in the urine"
"Acute interstitial nephritis may present with increased serum BUN and Cr with decreased urine output"
"Acute interstitial nephritis may be mediated by a type I or IV HSR"
"Sudden onset hydronephrosis may cause renal papillary necrosis"
"What is the next step in evaluation of acute kidney injury in an elderly patient with BPH who presents with rising creatinine and urinary urgency without hematuria, weight loss, or elevated PSA? Renal ultrasound"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young girl that presents with recurrent UTIs since birth with bilateral focal parenchymal scarring and blunted calyces on imaging? Vesicoureteral reflux"
"What renal pathology predisposes to recurrent UTIs, hypertension, and chronic pyelonephritis? Vesicoureteral reflux"
"The posterior urethral valve is made up of a(n) wolffian duct remnant"
"Posterior urethral valve may cause oligohydramnios due to obstruction of fetal urinary output and severe amniotic fluid reduction"
"Obstruction distal to the ureters (e.g. VUR, posterior urethral valve, BPH) may cause bilateral hydronephrosis::renal complication"
"What is the most common cause of urinary tract obstruction in adults and can cause unilateral hydronephrosis? Urolithiasis"
"Acute urinary tract obstruction (e.g. urolithiasis, surgical injury) may present with what clinical symptoms? Sharp flank pain radiating to groin, hematuria, nausea/ vomiting::3"
"Autoimmune pancreatitis, retroperitoneal fibrosis, Riedel's thyroiditis, and sclerosing aortitis are associated with IgG-4-related systemic diseases"
"Bladder cancer, uterine cancer and retroperitoneal fibrosis may present with bilateral hydronephrosis"
"Bilateral urinary tract obstruction may present with increased serum BUN and creatinine levels"
"Absorptive hypercalciuria, renal hypercalciuria, and resorptive hypercalciuria present with normocalcemia"
"Acidosis can cause calcium stones due to an imbalance in the Ca2+-PO43- buffer system and hypocitraturia *bonus: how does low citrate contribute to calcium stones?"
"Diarrhea may cause calcium kidney stones due to volume depletion, and acidemia with hypocitraturia"
"A diet high in protein can cause calcium stones due to acidemia, which causes hypocitraturia"
"Pure vegan diets (without calcium supplementation) may cause calcium oxalate kidney stones"
"Calcium phosphate stones are the most common kidney stone found in children::demographic"
"Idiopathic acidic urine accounts for 50% of uric acid kidney stones"
"Chronic diarrhea (metabolic acidosis) may precipitate uric acid kidney stones due to increased H+ excretion"
"Clear cell renal cell carcinomas are composed of cells with high lipids and glycogen content"
"WILMS tumor is an early childhood renal malignancy that presents with an abdominal mass that is usually asymptomatic::symptomatic or asymptomatic"
"Osmolal gap > 10 indicates presence of unaccounted osmoles (e.g. methanol, ethanol, ethylene glycol)"
"Renal Tubular Acidosis causes non-anion gap metabolic acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"COPD may cause respiratory acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Obstructive Sleep Apnea may cause respiratory acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Opioids and other sedatives may cause respiratory acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Restrictive lung disease may present with respiratory acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Neurological disorders (e.g. ALS, Guillain-Barré, polio, MG, botulism) may cause respiratory acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Muscle disorders may present with respiratory acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with hypovolemia and metabolic alkalosis due to vomiting, NG tube use or diuretics? Urine chloride is 15 mEq/L. IV bolus of normal saline"
"Mineralcorticoid excess (hyperaldosteronism) may cause metabolic alkalosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Pulmonary embolism may present with respiratory alkalosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Panic attacks may present with respiratory alkalosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Asthma may cause respiratory alkalosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"Chronic kidney disease is an independent risk factor for developing coronary artery disease"
"What angle of ureter insertion into the bladder can predispose to vesicoureteral reflex? Perpendicular (90 degree)"
"What is the normal serum creatinine concentration? ~1.0 mg/dL (ranges from 0.6-1.2)"
"What effect does age have on GFR? Decrease (renal dosing of drugs)"
"What is the normal serum BUN concentration? ~ 10 mg/dL (ranges from 7-20)"
"Ifosfamide, Cisplatin, and expired Tetracyclines may cause type 2 RTA::which acid-base disorder?"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison disease)? Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis (type 4 RTA)"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by congenital adrenal hyperplasia? Hyperkalemic (type 4) RTA"
"Type 4 RTA may be caused by low renin levels"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by sulfa drugs (trimethoprim)? Hyperkalemic (type 4) RTA"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by Heparin? Hyperkalemic (type 4) RTA"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by ACE inhibitors? Hyperkalemic (type 4) RTA"
"Which renal tubular acidosis may be caused by Lithium toxicity? Distal RTA (type 1)"
"Type 1 RTA is due decreased renal secretion of H+ onto anions and ammonia (NH3) → low ammonium (NH4+) secretion in the urine"
"Type 1 RTA leads to what acid-base disorder? Metabolic acidosis"
"Type 1 RTA presents with decreased levels of urine citrate *bonus: why?"
"Disorders that cause hypercalcemia (e.g. hyperparathyroidism, idiopathic hypercalciuria) may cause type 1 RTA"
"Which renal tubular acidosis is self-limited? Proximal RTA (Type 2)"
"Which helminth is also known as whipworm? Trichuris trichiura"
"Which helminth can cause loose stools, anemia and rectal prolapse (in children)? Trichuris trichiura (whipworm)"
"Trichuris trichiura (whipworm) is treated with albendazole"
"Acute tubular necrosis may cause high anion gap metabolic acidosis::what acid-base disorder?"
"AL amyloidosis may manifest as periorbital::location purpura, waxy skin, and macroglossia due protein deposits and weakening of vessel walls"
"What is more commonly seen in renal osteodystrophy due to CKD? Osteomalacia::Osteomalacia or Osteitis fibrosa cystic?"
"A(n) \never event\\" is a medical outcome that should never occur\""
"What is a normal total serum calcium level? ~9 mg/dL"
"Primary hypoparathyroidism presents with hypocalcemia"
"Chronic kidney disease results in a(n) 1-alpha hydroxylase::enzyme deficiency"
"IV blood transfusions containing phosphate, citrate, or albumin may cause hypocalcemia"
"What are the effects of severe acute pancreatitis on serum calcium levels? Decreased (hypocalcemia)"
"Hypercalcemia is defined as a total serum calcium > 10.5 mg/dL or an ionized calcium > 1.4 mg/dL"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 40-pack year smoker with symptomatic hypercalcemia (>14 mg/dL) with polyuria, constipation, nausea and low PTH? Malignancy (Humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy)"
"Hypercalcemia of malignancy (PTHrP) is characterized by low serum PTH and high serum PTHrP"
"The next step for suspected milk-alkali syndrome is serum PTH (suppressed)::test and isotonic saline followed by loop diuretics::treatment"
"Osteolytic bone metastases are most common where? Areas of active hematopoiesis (vertebrae, sternum)"
"Malignant breast cancer and multiple myeloma may lead to hypercalcemia, either through bony metastasis or PTHrP production"
"What finding differentiates familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia from primary hyperparathyroidism? Low 24 hour urinary Ca2+ excretion"
"Milk alkali syndrome is characterized by a triad of hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, and AKI"
"Within seconds of cardiac ischemia, myofibrils relax and cardiomyocytes shift from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism due to depletion of ATP"
"Buildup of intracellular Ca2+ upon reperfusion of ischemic cardiac tissue leads to hypercontracture of myocytes"
"What phenomenon is characterized by viable myocytes that do not return to full activity for hours to days after reperfusion? \Stunned myocardium\\"\""
"Chronic cardiac ischemia may lead to systolic::diastolic/systolic heart failure"
"Systemic hypoxia will ↓::↓↑ coronary O2 supply (e.g. hypotension, shock, anemia, and carbon monoxide poisoning)"
"Coronary atherosclerosis interferes with autoregulation mechanism and ability to maximally vasodilate"
"When do symptoms of Vasospastic (prinzmetal) angina most commonly occur? Night (when at rest)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with a smoking history that presents with episodic chest pain that resolves spontaneously and is associated with transient ST-segment elevation during the episodes? Vasospastic angina"
"What is the next step in diagnosis for a patient with new-onset epigastric pain, nausea, hypotension, bradycardia and T-wave inversions in leads II, III, aVF? Right-sided precordial ECG"
"NSTEMI often presents with ST segment depressions in ECG leads that correspond to the region of infarcted myocardium"
"Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor lowers morbidity and mortality rates in patients with NSTEMIs"
"Hyperacute T waves may be seen on ECG during the first few seconds of STEMI progression"
"New-onset left bundle branch block may be diagnostic of acute myocardial infarction"
"Myocardial infarct with occlusion of the right coronary artery may present with bradycardia and/or heart block"
"Myocardial infarction due to occlusion of the right coronary artery may present with JVD"
"Myocardial scar formation (weeks-months post-MI) may present with mural thrombi, heart failure::heart and/or ventricular arrhythmias::heart"
"Ventricular wall aneurysm occurs weeks-months post-MI and may cause systolic heart failure, manifesting as bibasilar crackles and JVD"
"The decreased cardiac output in heart failure causes increased sympathetic activity with vasoconstriction"
"ACS, dilated cardiomyopathy, valvular insufficiency, and L-R shunts may cause systolic heart failure"
"Chronic hypertension and valvular stenosis cause diastolic heart failure by increasing afterload"
"Systolic heart failure presents with increased preload *bonus: why?"
"Compensatory mechanisms of heart failure (e.g. RAAS, ADH activation) worsen::worsen/improve pulmonary and peripheral edema"
"Mitral regurgitation may be seen in left-sided heart failure due to dilation of the mitral annulus"
"What senses pulmonary edema in the lungs and triggers dyspnea? Pulmonary C fibers"
"Atrial fibrillation may be seen in left-sided heart failure due to dilation of the atrial tissue"
"Left-sided heart failure may result in vascular remodeling characterized by smooth muscle cell proliferation and collagen deposition"
"What physical exam manuever distinguishes between cardiac disease and liver disease in a patient with bilateral lower extremity edema and ascites? Hepato-jugular reflux"
"Pericardial and pleural effusions are associated with right-sided heart failure"
"Right-sided heart failure may present with ascites in the abdomen/peritoneal cavity due to portal hypertension"
"Chest X-ray of left-sided heart failure may reveal air bronchogram (dark airway against opacified interstitium) and cardiomegaly::heart size"
"Peribronchial edema is the cause of wheezing in left-sided heart failure"
"Uremia and malignancy may cause hemorrhagic pericarditis::cardiovascular"
"Heart failure may cause hypo-osmotic volume expansion::contraction/expansion"
"Restrictive cardiomyopathy can present with JVD::neck finding and a prominent Y descent on jugular venous pressure tracings"
"Lysosomal storage diseases (e.g. Hurler syndrome, Fabry disease) may cause restrictive cardiomyopathy"
"Scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) may cause restrictive cardiomyopathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with peripheral edema, ascites, JVD without inspiratory decline, and pericardial calcifications on CXR? Constrictive pericarditis"
"Sarcoidosis may cause restrictive cardiomyopathy"
"Digitalis and milrinone are contraindicated in hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy::heart condition"
"Diuretics, nitrates, ACE inhibitors, and dihydropyridine ca2+ channel blockers are contraindicated in hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy::heart condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with fever and signs of heart failure ~1 week after an URI? Viral myocarditis"
"Fungal myocarditis::heart condition is more commonly seen in immunocompromised::demographic patients"
"Drugs that elicit a type IV HSR and free radical damage can cause myocarditis::heart condition"
"Myocarditis caused by drugs is a type IV hypersensitivity reaction (lymphocytic and eosinophilic infiltrate on histology)"
"Myocarditis::Cardiovascular disorder may produce a precordial chest pain that may mimic myocardial infarction with release of troponins and CK-MB"
"What determines the severity of effusion and morbidity in cardiac tamponade? The rate of pericardial filling"
"What is the treatment for cardiac tamponade? Pericardiocentesis + IV fluids"
"Tuberculosis is the most common cause of constrictive pericarditis in developing countries"
"Chest irradiation or prior cardiac surgery may lead to constrictive pericarditis::heart complication due to scarring and fibrosis"
"Mitral stenosis may also be caused by annular calcification in elderly::demographic"
"What is the definitive treatment for symptomatic mitral regurgitation? Valve replacement"
"In chronic mitral regurgitation (compensated), how do the following change? - forward stroke volume = no change - afterload = no change - preload = increase - ejection fraction = increase"
"What effect does tachycardia have on the \click\\" onset time of the MVP murmur? Earlier systolic click (closer to S1)\""
"One possible complication of aortic stenosis is atrial fibrillation due to left atrial dilation"
"Does ASD present with a systolic or diastolic murmur? Both :)"
"ASD has a(n) +::+ or - bubble study on cardiac echo"
"After closure of a PDA, severe coarctation of the aorta::congenital heart disease may cause heart failure and shock"
"Coarctation of the aorta may cause upper extremity hypertension and aortic dissection"
"What congenital heart disease may present with lower extremity claudication? Coarctation of the aorta"
"Left-to-right shunts may cause endocarditis"
"The cardiac silhouette of transposition of great vessels looks like an \egg on a string\\" on CXR\""
"TAPVR causes a dilated right atrium and ventricle"
"What aortic complication is associated with giant cell (temporal) arteritis? Aortic/Thoracic aneurysm"
"There is a markedly increased incidence of giant cell arteritis in people of scandinavian descent"
"Which vasculitide presents with limb claudication and subclavien steal syndrome? Takayasu arteritis"
"Which vasculitide may present with aortic regurgitation and severe renovascular hypertension? Takayasu arteritis"
"Pneumonitis, glomerulonephritis (RPGN) and palpable purpura are common clinical symptoms of small vessel vasculitides"
"Individuals predisposed to vaculitis have sensitized neutrophils that express p::c/p-ANCA on their cell surface"
"Cryoglobulinemia is a type III HSR-mediated vasculitis that typically affects older women::demographic"
"Immunohistochemistry of glomeruli in Goodpasture syndrome shows extensive deposition of complement (C3)"
"Endothelial injury leads to upregulation of leukocyte adhesion molecules, which promote leukocyte adhesion and activation at the site of injury"
"After endothelial injury, LDL, macrophages, smooth muscle cells, and T-cells migrate to the tunica intima"
"After endothelial injury, platelets continue to aggregate and release cytokines and chemokines, which is exacerbated by *foam cells and chronic inflammation"
"Which cell may be altered by cytokines and growth factors to gain the ability to phagocytose LDL and cholesterol? Smooth muscle cells"
"Atherosclerotic plaques contain proliferations of thin-walled blood vessels due to upregulation of growth factors"
"Within atherosclerotic plaques, macrophages::cell and smooth muscle cells::cell produce metalloproteinases to digest extracellular matrix"
"Atherosclerotic plaques thicken the intima and impair perfusion of the tunica media resulting in cystic medial necrosis of smooth muscle cells"
"In peripheral artery disease, buttock pain and erectile dysfunction are due to lesions in the internal iliac artery"
"In peripheral artery disease, calf claudications are caused by lesions in the superficial femoral artery"
"Peripheral Artery Disease causes hair loss in the affected extremity due to deficient blood flow to hair follicles"
"Peripheral Artery Disease causes cool extremities to due reduced blood flow and hair loss"
"Peripheral Artery Disease may present with skin ulcers due to deficient blood flow and scant granulation tissue formation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with pain, pallor, paresthesias, paralysis, poikilothermia and pulselessness in one limb? Acute limb ischemia"
"What is the preferred next step for diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease in symptomatic patients? Ankle-brachial index (ABI) with Doppler (ABI is <0.9 in PAD)"
"Increased age, african american, and family history are non-modifiable risk factors for developing primary hypertension"
"Chronic sympathetic activity is thought to contribute to development of primary hypertension"
"Acute and chronic kidney disease may cause secondary hypertension due to increased renin and/or decreased salt and water excretion"
"Non-illicit drugs such as OCPs, corticosteroids, and NSAIDS may cause secondary hypertension"
"Acute aortic dissection may lead to new-onset heart failure with signs and symptoms of cardiogenic shock"
"Chronic hypertension causes arteriosclerosis, which increases the risk for hemorrhagic and ischemic::2 stroke"
"Chronic hypertension may cause nephrosclerosis/glomerulosclerosis leading to chronic kidney disease, which worsens hypertension"
"In peripheral artery disease, embolization of thrombus can travel to smaller downstream arteries and cause acute limb ischemia"
"Screening abdominal ultrasound should be performed on what demographic? Men > 65 with history of smoking"
"Large abdominal aortic aneurysms may present with hydronephrosis and postrenal kidney injury"
"Large thoracic aortic aneurysms may present with cough, wheezing, and dyspnea"
"Large thoracic aortic aneurysms may present with dysphagia and hoarseness"
"Thoracic aortic aneurysms may extend proximally and block the coronary artery ostia leading to ischemic heart disease"
"Thoracic aortic aneurysm rupture is associated with increasing vessel diameter (especially > 6cm)"
"A triad of cardiac tamponade, massive hemorrhage, and hypovolemic shock is characteristic of thoracic aortic aneurysm rupture"
"Infection of injured portions of the aorta (atherosclerotic plaque, catheterization injury) can lead to aortic aneurysm formation"
"Septic emboli from endocarditis may seed the aortic wall and lead to development or worsening of aortic aneurysm"
"Inflammatory vasculitides affecting the aorta (e.g. temporal arteritis, Takayasu arteritis) can lead to aortic aneurysm formation"
"Linear calcifications of the aortic arch on chest x-ray is suggestive of syphilitic aortitis"
"True aortic aneurysms involve which layers of the vessel wall? Intima, media, adventitia (all layers) False aortic aneurysms? only the adventitia"
"What iatrogenic risk factor may damage the intimal layer of a vessel wall and cause aortic dissection? Cardiac catheterization"
"What is the preferred diagnostic study for suspected aortic dissection in hemodynamically stable patients with normal renal function? CT angiography"
"Separation of the medial smooth muscle layer by dissecting blood creates a(n) true::true/false (systemic bloodflow) and false::true/false (dissecting bloodflow) lumen"
"How are aortic dissections classified in the DeBakey system? 1. Type 1: Ascending and Descending 2. Type 2: Ascending only 3. Type 3: Descending only"
"Occlusion of the carotid arteries by an expanding thoracic aortic dissection may cause ischemic stroke and/or syncope"
"What intrathoracic pathology may cause a chylous effusion due to obstruction of the thoracic duct? Malignancy (e.g. lymphoma)"
"What is the most common cause of secondary spontaneous pneumothorax? COPD (due to parenchymal destruction)"
"Whole blood leaking into the pleural cavity causes a(n) hemothorax, which may contain blood clots in the fluid collection"
"Hemothorax and chylothorax present with dullness::sound to percussion on the affected side"
"Parenchymal destruction from malignancy can cause secondary spontaneous pneumothorax"
"Pulmonary infections (e.g. pneumonia and lung abscess) may cause seconday spontaneous pneumothorax"
"Infection with M. tuberculosis may cause pleural or bronchial destruction leading to secondary spontaneous pneumothorax"
"Tension pneumothorax may restrict venous return resulting in hypotension and obstructive shock"
"Fibrotic changes in IPF appear as bilateral or diffuse reticular opacities, most prominent in lower::upper/lower lung lobes on CXR/CT"
"Which interstitial lung disease is associated with a \cobblestone\\" appearance of the pleural surface (retraction scars along the interlobular septa)? Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis\""
"Radiation pneumonitis may present with pleural effusions and is treated with oral corticosteroids"
"Patients with history of thoracic radiation may develop pulmonary fibrosis and pneumonitis"
"SLE::Collagen vascular disease can cause pulmonary fibrosis due to recurrent inflammatory damage to type I and II pneumocytes"
"DiGeorge syndrome is associated with increased susceptibility to intracellular infections (e.g. bacterial, viral, fungal)"
"22q11.2 microdeletion can cause velocardiofacial syndrome, which is similar DiGeorge syndrome except the thymus is normal"
"Velocardiofacial syndrome is an immunodeficiency with a normal thymus that presents clinically as abnormal facies, cleft palate, and cyanotic congenital heart disease"
"A skin injection of what can be used to confirm isolated B cell defects such as X-linked Agammaglobulinemia? Candida antigens"
"X-linked agammaglobulinemia increases susceptibility to encapsulated bacteria and viruses, particularly enterovirus::which virus?"
"Immunodeficiency (e.g. HIV) increases the risk for non-Hodgkin lymphoma::cancer, which presents as diffuse lymphadenopathy and B symptoms"
"Dermatomyositis and polymyositis are more common in women::demographic"
"Pathogenesis of polymyositis begins with increased expression of MHC I on the sarcolemma"
"Do polymyositis and dermatomyositis present with myalgias? Yes"
"What is the prognosis of Acral Lentiginous melanomas? Poor"
"After inital spread to regional lymph nodes, melanomas commonly metastasize to the brain and lungs"
"Which complement proteins are increased in C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency? C3a, C4a, and C5a"
"Nausea/vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea may present in hereditary angioedema due to submucosal swelling in the GI tract"
"C1esterase inhibitor deficiency is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern primary immunodeficiency that presents with widespread angioedema"
"Mannitol can disrupt the blood-brain barrier which increases the permeability of medications"
"H1 antagonists are used to treat hyperemesis gravidarum"
"The stapedius muscle is responsible for volume modulation"
"The tensor tympani muscle is responsible for dampening of loud noises"
"Alzheimer disease can present histologically with Hirano bodies which are eosinophilic proteinaceous rods in the hippocampus"
"IIH (pseudotumor cerebri) can present with papilledema due to impaired optic nerve axoplasmic flow"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome::Neurocutaneous disorder is derived from neural crest derivatives, manifesting as capillary malformations in the brain, eyes, and skin"
"NF1 is associated with bone lesions such as sphenoid dysplasia"
"Medulloblastomas are soft friable brain tumors with areas of necrosis that may contain MYC amplifications"
"Friedreich ataxia is a trinucleotide repeat disorder that can cause degeneration of the lateral corticospinal tract, spinocerebellar tract, and dorsal columns, and dorsal root ganglia"
"Friedreich ataxia may present with diabetes::endocrine disorder"
"Retinal blood vessel rupture leads to \flame\\" hemorrhages in nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy\""
"Retinal detachment is commonly caused by retinal breaks, inflammatory effusions, and proliferative diabetic retinopathy"
"Nyctalopia is another name for night blindness, which may be the presenting sign in retinitis pigmentosa"
"Leukocoria (white reflex) may be caused by congenital cataracts and toxocariasis"
"Lamotrigine is an anti-epileptic that has hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis as a black box warning"
"Echothiophate is a(n) indirect cholinomimetic used to treat glaucoma"
"a2-agonists are glaucoma drugs that are associated with ocular hyperemia, foreign body sensation, and ocular pruritis"
"Alcohol, fat-rich diets, caffeine, obesity, pregnancy, smoking, and hiatal hernias may cause GERD::GI pathology"
"PTH levels are increased in the setting of diarrhea, aminoglycoside use, diuretics, and alcohol abuse"
"Obese individuals have increased levels of leptin"
"Which cytokine(s) utilize receptor tyrosine kinase signaling pathways? TGF-β"
"Which cytokine(s) utilize receptor-associated tyrosine kinase signaling pathways? IL-2, IL-6, and IFN::3"
"Patients with acromegaly have an increased risk of colorectal polyp formation and cancer"
"What treatment option for Graves disease may be associated with worsening of ophthalmopathy? Radioactive iodine"
"Papillary thyroid carcinoma is due to PTC mutations"
"The GNAS gene is inactivated in pseudohypoparathyroidism but activated in McCune-Albright syndrome"
"What is the most common cause of esophageal perforation (e.g. Boerhaave syndrome)? Iatrogenic (especially endoscopy)"
"Eosinophilic esophagitis presents similarly to severe GERD and often occurs in children::demographic"
"GERD initially presents with dysphagia, but can progress to odynophagia due to erosive esophagitis or esophageal ulcers"
"Patches of red velvety mucosa (columnar epithelium) extending upward form the gastroesophageal junction is seen in Barrett's esophagus"
"Betel nuts are a risk factor for esophageal squamous cell carincoma due to irritant effect"
"What is the most common skin malignancy in immunocompromised states and/or those with a chronic scar? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Foods containing N-nitroso compounds increase the risk for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma"
"What increases the risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma especially with pre-existing Barrett's esophagus? Smoking"
"Fibrous replacement of the muscularis in the lower esophagus is the cause of esophageal dysmotility in CREST syndrome"
"What pathology presents as vague epigastric pain (dyspepsia) along with nausea/vomiting, and anorexia? Acute gastritis"
"What effect does standing up or the valsalva maneuver have on the intensity of MVP murmurs? Increased intensity"
"What effect does passive leg raising have on the intensity of MVP murmurs? Decreased intensity"
"Aortic regurgitation murmurs due to aortic root dilation are best heard at the base (aortic area 2nd ICS)"
"Aortic regurgitation murmurs due to valvular disease are best heard at the left sternal border (3rd ICS)"
"Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is a risk factor for what small bowel complications? 1. Small bowel adenocarcinoma 2. Small bowel obstruction"
"What is the most common site for small bowel adenocarcinomas? Duodenum"
"Familial dilated cardiomyopathy is due to mutations in the gene encoding titin"
"Behçet syndrome can be precipitated by HSV or parvovirus"
"Behçet syndrome is associated with HLA-B51"
"Patellofemoral syndrome is an overuse injury of young, female athletes with anterior knee pain"
"Tracheoesophageal fistula is associated with other congenital mesodermal defects, such as those in the mnemonic \VACTERL\\"\""
"What effect does H. pylori-mediated chronic gastritis have on serum levels of somatostatin? Decreased *bonus: why?"
"In chronic gastritis (e.g. H. pylori infection), loss of somatostatin leads to uninhibited gastrin production, which leads to increased acid secretion by parietal cells"
"Initial infection with H. pylori may cause acute gastritis"
"What is the appearance of MALT on histology? Blue due to presence of lymphocytes"
"Peptic ulcer disease may present with \black tarry stools\\" (melena) due to oxidation of iron from hemoglobin breakdown in an upper GI bleed\""
"The biggest risk factor for intestinal-type gastric adenocarcinoma is autoimmune gastritis"
"What type of gastric adenocarcinoma displays disorganized cell growth throughout the stomach \infiltrative growth pattern\\"? Diffuse-type gastric adenocarcinoma\""
"Which virus is a risk factor for gastric adenocarcinoma? Epstein-Barr virus"
"What are modifiable risk factors for gastric adenocarcinoma? Smoking and Alcohol::2"
"Gastroparesis is characterized by delayed gastric emptying without mechanical obstruction"
"Calcium channel blockers and TCAs may cause gastroparesis::GI disorder"
"What GI disorder is most commonly idiopathic, but may also be caused by diabetes (T1DM> T2DM), medications (TCAs, CCBs), and surgery? Gastroparesis"
"Gastroparesis is caused by dysfunction of the vagus nerve, which leads to impaired peristalsis of food through the stomach"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a diabetic patient with anorexia, postprandial bloating/vomiting, and early satiety without heartburn or epigastric pain? Gastroparesis"
"Incarcerated hernias constrict and inhibit venous / lymphatic drainage leading to swelling that surrounds arterial blood flow"
"Elevated intra-abdominal pressure and strenuous exercise are risk factors for hernias"
"Surgery, diabetes, drugs and sepsis are common causes of ileus::what small bowel disorder?"
"What GI tumor is a well-circumscribed, fleshy, submucosal mesenchymal mass that may present with nausea and vomiting? GIST tumor"
"GI stromal tumor (GIST) is a well-circumscribed mesenchymal tumor derived from what cells? Interstitial cells of Cajal (pacemaker cells)"
"What is seen on histology of Intestinal-type gastric adenocarcinoma? Glandular structures filled with mucin"
"H. pylori-mediated chronic gastritis and autoimmune gastritis are risk factors for primary gastric lymphomas (T or B-cell)"
"Crohn disease presents with what complication due to inflammation of the distal ileum & poor reabsorption of bile acids? Malabsorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins"
"Which neuromuscular junction pathology is characterized by diminished or absent deep tendon reflexes? Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome::MG or LEMS"
"What is the likely diagnosis for an adult with episodic, painless dark maroon-colored stool? Angiodysplasia"
"An entire leg burn is 18% of the body surface area"
"An entire arm burn is 9% of the body surface area"
"An entire head burn is 9% of the body surface area"
"An entire torso burn is 18% of the body surface area"
"An entire abdomen burn is 18% of the body surface area"
"A perineum burn is 1% of the body surface area"
"A negative likelihood ratio < 0.1 indicates a highly sensitive test."
"A positive likelihood ratio > 10 indicates a highly specific test."
"A(n) fisher's exact test is similar to a Chi-square test in that it is used to compare categorical outcomes but in small populations"
"Medicare is an example of what type of insurance plan? Accountable care organization"
"The prioritization of positive effects (comfort) over negative effects (respiratory depression) is called the principle of double effect"
"A(n) forcing function is a human factor design to improve quality/safety that prevents undesirable actions"
"Men who have sex with men, HIV, HPV (16,18), smoking, and immunocompromised state are risk factors for squamous cell carcinoma of the anus"
"Rectal prolapse is characterized by layers of mucosa that fold on each other and protrude through the anus *bonus: due to what etiology?"
"Weak pelvic floor muscles, chronic constipation, cystic fibrosis, and whooping cough are common causes of rectal prolapse"
"Hemorrhoids may occur in pregnant women::demographic due to increased intra-abdominal pressure and IVC compression"
"What nonkeratinized squamous cell malignancy of the anus arises near the dentate/pectinate line? Basaloid carcinoma"
"Anterior anal fissures are associated with Crohn's disease, malignancy, and infection"
"Many anal fissures also have what skin association? Anal tags"
"Anorectal fistulas often start as an anorectal abscess that eventually drains both internally and to the skin surface"
"Gardner syndrome may present with cutaneous lesions, dental abnormalities, and hypertrophy of retinal pigment epithelium"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with cirrhosis and ascites who presents with low-grade fever, diffuse abdominal discomfort, and altered mental status? Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis"
"Cyanide poisoning may occur through the ingestion of amygdalin, which is a glucoside found in apricot seeds"
"Carbon monoxide poisoning is classically associated with bilateral globus pallidus lesions on MRI"
"Increased ICP may cause a(n) cushing ulcer due to massive vagal output, which causes increased gastric acid production"
"Mesothelioma is almost always positive for calretinin and cytokeratin 5/6"
"Tension pneumothorax::Respiratory may cause kinking of the IVC which results in a decreased cardiac output"
"Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia is caused by chronic inflammation of bronchioles due to inflammatory diseases (rheumatoid) or medications (amiodarone)"
"Cryptogenic organizing pneumonia is treated with steroids as it does not respond to antibiotics"
"Reslizumab and Mepolizumab are monoclonal antibodies against IL-5 used for maintenance therapy for asthma"
"Benralizumab is a monoclonal antibody against IL-5 receptor alpha used for maintenance therapy for asthma"
"The diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis is confirmed with endoscopy and esophageal biopsy (> 15 eos/hpf)"
"Small bowel obstruction is less commonly due to what? Tumor (e.g. cancer)"
"Small bowel obstruction may present with a(n) tympanitic::sound abdomen and distension due to backup of gas in the intestines"
"Small bowel obstruction initially presents with hyperactive (high pitched \tinkling\\") bowel sounds due to abdominal peristalsis\""
"Air-fluid levels, \transition point\\""
"Primary biliary cholangitis increases the risk for hepatocellular carcinoma due to chronic cirrhosis"
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis may present with ascending cholangitis due to transient blockage of the extrahepatic biliary tree"
"Primary sclerosing cholangitis is associated with HLA-DR genes"
"PBC and PSC may cause elevation of what lab values? ALP, GGT, conjugated hyperbilirubinemia, and immune proteins (IgM)::4"
"Breast feeding jaundice is due to lack of enteral feeding, which leads to slow bile excretion and causes a(n) unconjugated (indirect) hyperbilirubinemia that appears in the 1st week of life"
"How does excess absorbed copper get eliminated in Wilson disease? Urinary compensation (accounts for 5-15% of daily copper excretion)"
"Health professionals may provide parents with anticipatory guidance to address significant changes to expect during their child's development"
"Constitutional delay of growth and puberty is the isolated, temporary halting of skeletal growth in the absence of other causal physical abnormalities"
"Constitutional delay of growth and puberty is quantified by bone age radio-graphic studies of the left hand and wrist"
"Histology of hepatic hemangiomas will show dilated cystic spaces filled with RBCs, classically described as \cavernous\\"\""
"Although angiosarcomas may rupture and cause life-threatening hemorrhage, the best next step is lesion biopsy *bonus: ultimate treatment?"
"Hepatitis B virus may cause hepatocellular carcinoma without cirrhosis, but usually occurs via progression from cirrhosis"
"Which liver mass is characterized by sheets of large hepatocytes full of glycogen on histology? Hepatic adenomas"
"Von Gierke's disease and Cori disease can cause hepatic adenomas::which liver mass?"
"Which liver mass is benign yet carries a small risk (~10%) of transformation to hepatocellular carcinoma? Hepatic adenomas"
"On histology, what is seen in well-differentiated (organized) hepatocellular carcinoma? Bile-containing pseudocanaliculi"
"Aniline (azo) dyes are a risk factor for what cancers? Hepatocellular and transitional cell carcinoma::2"
"Autoimmune hepatitis, PSC, and PBC increase the risk for hepatocellular carcinoma due to progressive cirrhosis"
"Hepatic hemangiomas, hepatic adenomas, and focal nodular hyperplasias are most common in women of reproductive age::demographic"
"Which liver mass is generally stable, benign, and non-vascular (rarely complicated by spontaneous rupture and hemorrhage)? Focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH)"
"Should oral contraceptives be discontinued in a patient with focal nodular hyperplasia? No"
"Which liver mass is characterized by a solitary mass with a hypodense central stellate scar or \spoke wheel\\" vascular pattern on CT imaging? Focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH)\""
"Which liver mass is characterized by a large central artery with surrounding bile ductules, arterioles, and portal venules on histology? Focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH)"
"What is the initial step for evaluation of suspected hereditary hemochromatosis? Iron studies"
"Hereditary hemochromatosis can cause steatorrhea and malabsorption due to free radical injury to the exocrine pancreas"
"Wilson disease may cause hemolytic anemia::hematological complication due to excess circulating copper"
"Which virus may cause gastric lymphomas (marginal zone or diffuse large B-cell lymphomas)? Epstein-Barr virus"
"What is the most common primary lung cancer in children and adolescents? Bronchial carcinoid tumor"
"On electron microscopy, carcinoid tumor cells display dense cytoplasmic granules (contain secretory products and hormones)"
"Lynch syndrome, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, Crohn's disease, and FAP are risk factors for small bowel adenocarcinoma"
"Carcinoid syndrome may present with vascular telangiectasias on the nose and cheeks"
"Atrial fibrillation, valvular disease, and acute thrombosis (e.g. PAD, low cardiac output) may cause sudden-onset acute mesenteric ischemia::GI pathology"
"What is the likely diagnosis for a patient with atherosclerosis who presents with crampy postprandial epigastric pain, food aversion, and weight loss? Chronic mesenteric ischemia"
"Cardiogenic shock, septic shock, and hypovolemia may cause acute colonic ischemia (Ischemic colitis) due to to poor perfusion of the colon"
"Acute colonic ischemia may cause necrosis and perforation of the large bowel resulting in sepsis"
"Acute colonic ischemia most commonly occurs in elderly::demographic"
"Acute colonic ischemia may cause diminshed/absent::increased/decreased bowel sounds"
"Bowel ischemia leads to patchy areas of mucosal hemorrhage with neutrophilic infiltrate"
"Bowel ischemia and necrosis is most susceptible to the superficial mucosa (with villi)::which layer? of the GI tract *bonus: why?"
"Small and large bowel ischemia initially spares crypts, which contain secretory cells and stem cells"
"In appendicitis, obstruction leads to increased intraluminal pressure, which compresses vessels and lymphatics in the appendiceal wall resulting in ischemia and necrosis"
"Acute appendicitis may precipitate bacterial overgrowth/invasion causing leukocytosis with fever, nausea/vomiting and warrants immediate surgery::treatment"
"Late appendicitis presents with sharp::description RLQ::location pain due to inflammation of parietal peritoneum sensed by somatic afferent fibers"
"Large bowel obstruction presents with abdominal pain/distension, hyperresonance to percussion, and high-pitched \tinkling\\" bowel sounds\""
"What is the most common cause of large bowel obstruction? Malignancy (e.g. tumor)"
"Dilated loops of colon and air-fluid levels on x-ray is suggestive of large bowel obstruction"
"Large bowel obstruction presents with colicky::description abdominal pain and nausea/vomiting (including feculent vomiting)"
"Alcoholic hepatitis may progress to cirrhosis, which is scarring that forms septa and nodules (generally irreversible) and increase risk for hepatocellular carcinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with obesity and diabetes who presents with hepatomegaly and mildly elevated LFTs in the absence of other causes for secondary hepatic fat accumulation? Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)"
"Hepatocyte damage in alcoholic hepatitis leads to cytokine (e.g. IL-8) release, which attracts neutrophils"
"Where does the fibrosis and steatosis start in alcoholic hepatitis? Central vein of the liver (Zone III [centrilobular])"
"What substance distributes into the blood, urine, breath, sweat? Ethanol"
"Gallbladder distension, pressure necrosis, and perforation may occur in acute cholecystitis due worsening inflammation"
"Cholesterol gallstones may be seen in pregnant women::demographic due to elevated progesterone levels *bonus: why?"
"What is the gross apperance of gallbladder adenocarcinoma? Exophytic (\cauliflower-like\\") mass\""
"Fasting increases the risk for cholesterol gallstones due to decreased gallbladder motility"
"Cholangiocarcinoma is an adenocarcinoma of bile duct epithelium that is diagnosed with ERCP + biopsy"
"Histology of cholangiocarcinoma demonstrates what? Glands & mucin (glandular pattern)"
"Cholangiocarcinoma may present with jaundice::skin and pruritus::skin due to narrowing of bile ducts"
"Cholangiocarcinoma obstructing the biliary tree may present with light::color stools and dark::color urine"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile child that presents with abdominal pain, jaundice, and a palpable RUQ mass with a normal gallbladder on ultrasound? Choledochal cyst (biliary cyst)"
"Choledochal cysts increase the risk for *gallstones and cholangiocarcinoma"
"Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis is a systemic overactivation of macrophages and cytotoxic T cells that leads to fever, pancytopenia and hepatosplenomegaly"
"What commonly presents as acute liver decompensation (e.g. encephalopathy, worsening or bloody ascites, fever, SBP, etc)? Hepatocellular carcinoma"
"Ménétrier disease is a premalignant stomach enteropathy characterized by massive gastric folds associated with excessive transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-α)"
"Cirrhosis may cause decreased total serum calcium and normal ionized serum calcium"
"Chronic viral hepatitis (HBV, HCV) and autoimmune diseases (PSC, PBC, autoimmune hepatitis) may cause cirrhosis of the liver, which is irreversible scarring/fibrosis"
"Cirrhosis leads to increased intrasinusoidal pressure and shrinkage of hepatocyte endothelial fenestrations"
"Cirrhosis may cause fasting hypoglycemia due to decreased glycogenolysis and decreased gluconeogenesis"
"Cirrhosis may cause vitamin D deficiency due to decreased synthesis of 25-hydroxylase"
"Cirrhosis may cause hypokalemia because the liver is unable to metabolize aldosterone::hormone"
"What effect does cirrhosis have on serum sodium levels? Decreased (hyponatremia) *bonus: why?"
"What creates new hepatocytes in response to cell injury [in cirrhosis]? Liver stem cells"
"Hepatorenal syndrome [2o to cirrhosis] may cause splanchnic arterial dilation due to increased release of NO"
"Cirrhosis may lead to activation of RAAS due to decreased intravascular volume and impaired metabolism of aldosterone"
"Hepatorenal syndrome activates RAAS and increases angiotensin II levels, which leads to pre-renal kidney injury::kidney complication"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with severe epigastric pain radiating to the back and peripancreatic edema/hemorrhage on CT? Acute necrotizing pancreatitis"
"In gallstone pancreatitis ALT > AST, whereas in alcohol-induced pancreatitis ALT < AST"
"Pancreatitis secondary to alcohol abuse may present with what hematology complication? Macrocytosis (MCV >100)"
"In a gastrinoma, what gross appearance may be seen on endoscopy of the upper GI tract? Thickening of gastric folds"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma at the head of the pancreas may present with dark::color urine and pale::color stool"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma may cause Cushing syndrome::paraneoplastic syndrome"
"Pancreatic adenocarcinoma may metastasize to the left supraclavicular lymph node or the periumbilical area"
"Pyruvate kinase deficiency is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance pattern disorder that presents with hemolytic anemia in the newborn period, then splenomegaly later in life"
"Hereditary spherocytosis may cause hydrops fetalis, manifesting as high-output heart failure and total body edema in the fetus"
"Misshapen RBCs become trapped in the Cords of Billroth::specific where they are phagocytosed by splenic macrophages"
"Hereditary elliptocytosis is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern disorder resulting in long oval-shaped RBCs"
"Mutations in spectrin can cause hereditary elliptocytosis"
"Hereditary elliptocytosis increases protection against malaria"
"What hepatobiliary complication is associated with hereditary spherocytosis? Pigmented gallstones + acute cholecystitis"
"In sickle cells, the mutated hemoglobin molecules overlap due to increased hydrophobic/nonpolar interactions between hemoglobin molecules"
"Sickle cell disease may cause Ischemic stroke (large vessel) due to sickling of erythrocytes and thrombus formation in cranial vessels"
"What affect does splenic sequestration crisis have on reticulocyte count? Increased (reticulocytosis)"
"Sickled cells become stiff::characteristic due to irreversible damage from persistent polymerization-depolymerization cycles, which exacerbates polymerization and sickling"
"What affect does splenic sequestration crisis have on serum hemoglobin and hematocrit? Decreased (normocytic anemia)"
"What affect does splenic sequestration crisis have on blood pressure? Decreased (hypotension) *bonus: why?"
"In sickle cell disease, the spleen becomes enlarged and dysfunctional in early childhood (functional asplenia by age 5)::demographic (\splenic fatigue\\")\""
"Sickle cell trait in combination with another β globin defect results in a phenotype similar to sickle cell disease"
"People with sickle cell trait may develop splenic infarction in the setting of physiologic stressors (dehydration, air travel, sepsis)"
"Type I plasminogen deficiency (hypoplasminogenemia) is due to a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance mutation in the PLG gene"
"Type I plasminogen deficiency leads to deposition of fibrin on mucous membranes"
"Hypofibrinogenemia is an inherited disorder that is often asymptomatic but may lead to abnormal bleeding"
"Severe intravascular hemolysis can cause acute kidney injury (AKI) due to acute tubular necrosis (ATN)"
"Elderly patient with history of falls presents with progressive headache, somnolence, confusion, and mild contralateral hemiparesis for the past 2 weeks = chronic subdural hematoma::likely diagnosis"
"New bleeding on subdural bleeding \acute on chronic\\" will appear as hyperdense areas on non-contrast CT\""
"What type of brain hematoma presents insidiously 1-2 weeks after the initial injury with headache, somnolence, confusion, and focal neurologic deficits? Chronic subdural hematoma"
"Headache, altered mental status, syncope, nausea and vomiting are symptoms of intracranial hemorrhage"
"What is the first-line surgical treatment for patients with epidural hematoma? Urgent craniotomy"
"What is the second-line surgical treatment for patients with epidural hematoma? Urgent burr hole evacuation"
"What is the major cause of delayed morbidity and death after 3 - 10 days of presentation of a subarachnoid hemorrhage? Vasospasm"
"Subarachnoid hemorrhage may cause photophobia (fear of light)::phobia"
"Cerebral aneurysms are more frequent in postmenopausal women::demographic due to decreased estrogen"
"What are two modifiable risk factors for cerebral aneurysms? Alcohol and Smoking"
"Chronic anticoagulation with drugs such as warfarin increase the risk for subdural hematomas following injury (especially in elderly)"
"Chronic alcohol consumption may cause vitamin B12 deficiency"
"What is the next step for a patient that presents with anemia, borderline-elevated MCV (97 µm3), and bilateral foot paresthesia? Order serum B12, homocysteine, and methylmalonic acid"
"Megaloblastic anemia secondary to folate/cobalamin deficiency is characterized by a(n) low reticulocyte count"
"Vitamin B12 deficiency initially presents as lower extremity paresthesias with no other neurologic findings"
"Atrophic glossitis and angular cheilitis are clinical manifestations of iron deficiency anemia"
"Celiac disease may cause iron deficiency anemia::anemia * bonus: why?"
"Chronic atrophic gastritis and H. pylori gastritis may cause iron deficiency anemia"
"The signs and symptoms of iron deficiency anemia occur after ferritin in the bone marrow is depleted"
"Severe iron deficiency anemia::type of anemia may cause a hyperdynamic state with tachycardia, palpitations, and angina"
"Hemoglobin H migrates faster::faster/slower than normal hemoglobin (A1) on electrophoresis"
"Both Hemoglobin H and hemoglobin Bart's have a strong affinity for oxygen, manifesting as hypoxia (cyanosis)"
"Precipitation of Hemoglobin Bart’s (alpha thalassemia major) into inclusion bodies may result in extravascular hemolysis::hematologic complication"
"β-thalassemia intermedia is caused by splicing defects in both β genes, manifesting as moderate anemia"
"The causes of microcytic anemia may be remembered by \T.A.I.L.S.\\": Thalassemia Anemia of chronic disease Iron deficiency Lead Sideroblastic Anemia\""
"In microcytic anemia, the reticulocyte count is low (less than 3%)"
"Emphysema presents with diffuse bilateral wheezing::lung sound"
"COPD causes irreversible obstruction"
"Emphysema may present with distant/diminished heart and lung sounds"
"Early emphysema presents with respiratory alkalosis, while late emphysema presents with respiratory acidosis"
"Thrombocytopenia is defined as a platelet count < 150,000 uL"
"Phagocytosis of IgG-coated platelets in the spleen and systemic thrombosis are the two causes of thrombocytopenia in HIT"
"Antibody binding of platelets in HIT induces degranulation (release of cytokines, platelet factor 4, and ADP), which leads to arterial or venous thrombosis::complication"
"Does heparin induced thrombocytopenia often present with constitutional symptoms? Yes"
"What is the next step in diagnosis for a young man that has been acting strange, has signs of renal failure, and thrombocytopenia? Peripheral blood smear"
"Why is there thrombocytopenia in splenic sequestration crisis and portal hypertension? Platelets are trapped in spleen"
"Immune thrombocytopenic purpura in adults::demographic has a chronic course with episodic acute flares"
"In Bernard-Soulier syndrome, the ristocetin test is negative::positive/negative with addition of normal serum to the unagreggated sample *bonus: why?"
"Glanzmann Thrombasthenia is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance pattern qualitative platelet disorder"
"In Glanzmann Thrombasthenia, the ristocetin test is positive (normal)"
"Trauma may cause qualitative::qualitative/quantitative platelet dysfunction"
"Platelet dysfunction (qualitative) causes \platelet\\" type bleeding in what areas of the body? Skin & mucous membranes\""
"Diabetes mellitus causes qualitative platelet dysfunction that leads to thrombotic::bleeding/thrombotic complications"
"Myocardial infarction and thrombus formation is a complication of diabetes mellitus due to chronic hyperglycemia"
"Newborns are routinely given a(n) vitamin K injection in the hospital, thus a risk factor for hemorrhagic disease of the newborn is home birth"
"DIC causes depletion of pro- & anti::pro/anti-coagulant components of the coagulation cascade"
"What class of drugs can treat acquired hemophilia from anti-factor 8 antibodies? Corticosteroids"
"What drug may cause anti-factor 8 antibodies resulting in acquired hemophilia? Penicillin"
"Pregnancy and postpartum may cause anti-factor 8 antibodies resulting in acquired Hemophilia (A)"
"RA::autoimmmune disease and SLE::autoimmmune disease may cause anti-factor 8 antibodies resulting in acquired hemophilia (A)"
"Severe hemorrhage in vWF disease is treated with IV normal saline and cryoprecipitate (thawed FFP)"
"Hemophilia A, B and C disrupt which coagulation pathway? Intrinsic coagulation pathway"
"Is the A - a gradient normal, increased, or decreased, in response to a pulmonary embolus? Increased"
"Massive pulmonary embolism may result in obstructive shock and cor pulmonale"
"What is used to determine whether an individual is at a high or low risk for DVT? Wells score"
"Post-thrombotic syndrome is a complication of chronic DVT"
"Chronic venous insufficiency may cause lipodermatosclerosis, a fibrosis of subcutaneous tissue that starts at the medial ankle"
"Chronic venous insufficiency presents with edema, skin pigmentation and venous stasis dermatitis (skin peeling due to ulcerations)"
"DVT, PE and ischemic stroke are complications that may occur in antiphospholipid syndrome T::T/F"
"AT III deficiency is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern thrombosis syndrome with normal PT, aPTT, and bleeding times"
"Nephrotic syndrome may cause acquired AT III deficiency due to loss of antithrombin in the urine"
"In newborns, homozygous protein C or S deficiency can cause neonatal purpura fulminans"
"Prothrombin G20210A mutation is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern disorder that may present with venous thromboses (e.g. DVT, PE)"
"What disease can cause thrombosis and neurologic symptoms due to hyperviscosity syndrome? Sickle cell disease"
"Pregnancy, OCPs, smoking, and immobilization increase the risk for thrombosis::complication in Factor V Leiden"
"Factor V Leiden is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern disorder of thrombosis due to increased generation of thrombin"
"What hormone may contribute to the development of SLE in females by stimulating cell-mediated immunity? Estrogens"
"Autoimmunity can be triggered by release of normally sequestered antigens"
"Toxins can trigger autoimmunity (e.g. cigarette smoke -> rheumatoid arthritis); environmental factors may also trigger autoimmunity"
"Autoantibodies form complexes with antigens, which activate the classical complement pathway and induce tissue damage in SLE::autoimmune disorder"
"SLE may affect the brain::organ, causing seizures or psychosis"
"During Sjrogren's syndrome, excessive lymphocytic infiltrate will interact with B cells leading to formation of germinal centers within salivary glands"
"Premenopausal woman presents with dyspareunia, UTI, dry vaginal mucosa and past medical history of chronic dry eyes/mouth: Sjögren's syndrome::Likely diagnosis?"
"On skin biopsy, systemic sclerosis often shows perivascular CD4+ lymphocytic infiltrate"
"Systemic sclerosis may present with \cardiac raynaud\\""
"Endothelial damage in systemic sclerosis::connective tissue disorder causes release of self antigens and cytokines, which induces self-reactive lymphocytes and CD4+ T cell infiltration, respectively"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African American woman who presents with Raynaud's phenomenon and signs of right-sided heart failure (RV heave, dyspnea, peripheral edema, hepatomegaly)? Pulmonary arterial HTN secondary to systemic sclerosis"
"During systemic sclerosis, excessive collagen production mediated by IL-13 and TGF- β leads to fibrosis, which destroys native tissue"
"AL amyloidosis may affect the joints because amyloid deposits in synovial tissues"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis that presents with generalized edema, hepatomegaly, 4+ proteinuria, and enlarged kidneys? AA amyloidosis"
"Hemodialysis-related amyloidosis is a(n) systemic::localized/systemic amyloidosis caused by accumulation of amyloid β2 microglobulin"
"Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is a localized amyloidosis associated with Alzheimer's disease"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency presents with loss of adult teeth by adolescence due to periodontitis"
"Those with Leukocyte adhesion deficiency are susceptible to bacterial invasion, particularly nonpurulent skin and mucosal infections"
"Myeloperoxidase deficiency (MPO) is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance pattern primary immunodeficiency"
"In Myeloperoxidase deficiency (MPO)::MPO/CGD, the respiratory burst is intact, and thus will produce superoxide (O-) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)"
"Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) can present with granulomas (may contain multinucleated giant cells) in any organs::which organ(s)?"
"Renovascular disease due to atherosclerosis typically occurs in the proximal 1/3 of the renal artery"
"Renovascular disease due to fibromuscular dysplasia typically occurs in the distal 2/3 of the renal artery and/or segmental branches"
"Important neutrophil chemotactants include: a. C5a b. IL-8 c. LTB4 d. kallikrein e. platelet-activating factor"
"Vancomycin, opioids, and radiocontrast dye can cause IgE-independent mast cell degranulation"
"Polycythemia vera may present with pruritus after a warm bath or shower due to mast cell degranulation"
"Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis is characterized by very increased levels of ferritin"
"Direct Xa inhibitors can be reversed with administration of andexanet alfa"
"Procarbazine is an alkylating agent that also acts as a weak MAO inhibitor"
"Trametinib is a(n) MEK inhibitor that is often co-administered with vemurafenib"
"What type of bias occurs when patients do not get studied because they die? Late-look Bias"
"Diffuse esophageal spasms are treated with nitrates and/or calcium channel blockers"
"Schatzki rings are rings at the GE junction due to chronic acid reflux"
"Most cases of diffuse gastric cancer are due to E-cadherin mutations"
"A(n) Blumer shelf is a palpable rectal mass suggesting metastasis to the rectouterine pouch from a(n) gastric malignancy"
"Serrated polyps are commonly caused by silenced MMR genes (due to CpG methylation) which lead to microsatellite instability and BRAF mutations"
"Tracheal cartilage is derived embryologically from mesoderm"
"Turner syndrome is associated with abnormalities in the SHOX gene"
"Ectopic pregnancies within the isthmus have the highest risk of tubal rupture"
"Hypertension with proteinuria occurring before 20 weeks of pregancy is consistent with molar pregnancies"
"The cysts in PCOS are formed from unruptured follicles due to increased androgens and LH:FSH ratio"
"Cyclospora, Isospora belli and C. Parvum are all parasites"
"Degarelix is a(n) GnRH antagonist used to treat prostate cancer"
"Ureaplasma urealyticum is a(n) urease-positive bacteria related to Mycoplasma that commonly causes urocystitis (and prostatitis)"
"First line treatment for Ureaplasma urealyticum is tetracyclines"
"Schizophrenia is associated with in-creased serotonergic activity and decreased dendritic branching"
"Persistent complex bereavement disorder involves obsessive preoccupations with the deceased and causes functional impairment lasting > 12 months (6 in children)"
"Trichotillomania is compulsively pulling out one's hair which causes significant distress but persists despite attempts to stop"
"Binge-eating disorder may be treated with lisdexamfetamine, which is a prodrug of dextroamphetamine"
"Duloxetine and milnacipran are SNRIs that are indicated for fibromyalgia"
"Vilazodone is a 5-HT1A partial agonist while vortioxetine is a 5-HT1A agonist/5-HT3 antagonist"
"Myasthenia gravis is associated with HLA-B8"
"SCID may be caused by mutations in RAG which leads to VDJ recombination defects"
"Ixekizumab and secukinumab are monoclonal antibodies against IL-17A used to treat psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis"
"Essential thrombocythemia is a myeloproliferative neoplasm with an increased number of megakaryocytes::what cells? in the bone marrow"
"Essential thrombocythemia may present with decreased serum vWF because it is used by platelets"
"Myelodysplastic syndromes result in pancytopenia, despite a normal hypercellular bone marrow"
"Primary myelofibrosis can cause splenomegaly::organ complication and splenic infarcts::organ complication due to extramedullary hematopoiesis"
"Myelodysplastic syndromes rmay present with variable leukocytes and platelets"
"The next step in diagnosis for suspected myelodysplastic syndrome is bone marrow biopsy"
"Do myeloproliferative neoplasms cause severe constitutional symptoms? Yes"
"Exposure to benzene (plastics, rubber tire industries) is a risk factor for acute myeloid leukemia::leukemia"
"Acute myeloid leukemia presents with fever, bone pain, weakness and fatigue"
"Acute myeloid leukemia presents with petechiae and ecchymosis::skin findings (2) due to thrombocytopenia"
"Most patients with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) present in the chronic phase with insidious onset of symptoms"
"The \accelerated stage\\" of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia may present with bleeding::heme complication due to thrombocytopenia\""
"Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) presents with leukocytosis due to abundant granulocytes [both mature and partially mature forms]"
"What age group is primarily affected by Chronic Myeloid Leukemia? Older adults ~60 years old"
"Chronic Myeloid Leukemia may progress to \blast crisis\\""
"In Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, granulocytes become more immature::mature/immature over time"
"The \chronic stage\\" of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia may present with thrombosis::heme complication due to thrombocytosis\""
"Chronic Myeloid Leukemia presents with immature granulocytes, especially myelocytes (\myelocytic buldge\\")\""
"COPD, cyanotic congenital heart disease, obstructive sleep apnea, and high altitude cause physiologic secondary polycythemia"
"What medication is an alternative treatment in polycythemia vera if there is increased risk of thrombus? Hydroxyurea"
"Polycythemia vera::Which polycythemia? can transform into acute myelogenous leukemia"
"Polycythemia vera may present with facial plethora::visible cutaneous finding due to excessive RBCs and tissue congestion"
"Polycythemia vera may cause abdominal pain due to abnormal mucosal blood flow in the gastrointestinal system"
"Polycythemia vera may present with gouty arthritis::complication due to increased breakdown of RBC DNA"
"Polycythemia vera may present with hepatosplenomegaly::visceral pathology due to tissue congestion and extramedullary hematopoiesis"
"A late complication of polycythemia vera::which polycythemia? is myelofibrosis as bone marrow is replaced by collagen and fibroblasts"
"Polycythemia vera may cause proliferation of RBCs, platelets and granulocytes (neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils)"
"Polycythemia vera may present with transient visual/neurological disturbances due to small foci of thrombosis and hemorrhage in the CNS"
"Adult T-cell leukemia typically presents in older adults::demographic and is TdT -"
"Child with bone pain, non-tender lymphadenopathy, and pancytopenia is suggestive of acute lymphoblastic leukemia::diagnosis?"
"Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia usually presents with::with/without easy bruising/bleeding, fatigue and fever"
"Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia may present with hepatosplenomegaly and lymphadenopathy due to infiltration by leukemic cells"
"Lymphoblasts are periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) +::+/- Myeloblasts are periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) -::+/-"
"Acute lymphoblastic lymphoma is defined as a neoplastic proliferation of blasts <::</> 25% in the bone marrow +::+/- lymphoid mass"
"T-cell ALL is caused by a mutation in a pre-T-cell in the thymus::location B-cell ALL is caused by a mutation in a pre-B-cell in the bone marrow::location"
"Bruising, petechiae, pallor, non-tender lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly in a 2-5 year old is suggestive of acute lymphoblastic leukemia::diagnosis"
"In Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, neoplastic cells exhibit increased expression of BCL2::proto-oncogene"
"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia presents as functional pancytopenia (anemia and thrombocytopenia) and bone marrow crowding by neoplastic cells (dysfunctional WBCs despite leukocytosis)"
"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia presents with leukocytosis (primarily lymphocyte B-cells)::WBC count"
"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia is diagnosed by flow cytometry"
"Hairy cell leukemia may present with pancytopenia due to leukemic bone marrow infiltration and fibrosis"
"Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia may present with nonpainful::painful/nonpainful lymphadenopathy in the cervical, supraclavicular, and axillary lymph nodes"
"T-cell ALL (leukemia or lymphoma) often presents with lymphadenopathy, particularly in the cervical, supraclavicular, and axillary lymph nodes"
"T-cell ALL (leukemia or lymphoma) may present with SVC syndrome, stridor, dysphagia, or dyspnea"
"Hodgkin lymphoma due to EBV infection may be associated with activation of NF-κB, which helps mutant B-cells evade apoptosis"
"Mixed cellularity Hodgkin Lymphoma is more common in developing countries::what countries? and is the second most common type overall"
"Which infection is a risk factor for mixed cellularity Hodgkin lymphoma, particularly in the setting of EBV co-infection? HIV"
"What does Mixed Cellularity Hodgkin Lymphoma display on histology? Nodules without fibrous septa"
"Mixed Cellularity Hodgkin Lymphoma often arises in spleen and abdominal lymph nodes"
"Patients with a personal or family history chronic autoimmune diseases are at increased risk for Hodgkin lymphoma/NHL"
"Lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma::which Hodgkin Lymphoma? displays lymphohistocytic cells that express CD 20 and CD 19"
"Lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma is most common in African-American males::which race/sex?"
"Does Nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma contain Reed-Sternberg cells? No"
"Hodgkin lymphomas stem from a mutated B lymphocyte in the germinal center or shortly after leaving the germinal center resulting in a proliferation of clonal B cells"
"Hodgkin lymphoma typically arises within germinal centers of lymph nodes (most common), liver, and spleen"
"Immunodeficiency-related Burkitt lymphoma usually occurs in individuals with HIV::infection?"
"Immunodeficiency-related Burkitt lymphoma occurs in older adults::demographic and presents with generalized lymphadenopathy"
"In Burkitt lymphoma, the aggressive::aggressive/indolent B cells are due to a product of gene translocation"
"What co-infection can cause diffuse large B-cell lymphoma? EBV & HIV::2"
"Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is most commonly a result of proliferation of mature B lymphocytes::cell"
"Non-Hodgkin and Hodgkin::Hodgkin/non-Hodgkin lymphoma may present with \B\\" symptoms (e.g. weight loss"
"Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma may present as a(n) primary CNS lymphoma"
"Kaposi Sarcoma (HHV-8) and HIV co-infection may cause primary effusion lymphoma, which presents in pleural, peritoneal or pericardial spaces"
"Myelin figures are aggregations of peroxidized lipids that are associated with reversible cell injury"
"Nivolumab is an anti-checkpoint monoclonal antibody that binds to PD-1 on T cells"
"Atezolizumab, durvalumab, and avelumab are checkpoint inhibitors that bind to PD-L1 on tumor cells"
"Ipilimumab is a checkpoint inhibitor that binds to CTLA-4 on T cells"
"Somatostatinomas are pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors that are associated with psammoma bodies"
"Does administering HCO3- for tricyclic antidepressant toxicity accelerate drug metabolism? No - only overcomes Na channel-blocking activity"
"The internal urethral sphincter predominantly expresses alpha1 receptors"
"The external urethral sphincter predominantly expresses nicotinic receptors"
"The detrusor muscle predominantly expresses M3 and B3::2 receptors"
"Sildenafil causes cyanopia via inhibition of PDE-6 in the retina"
"Roflumilast is a PDE-4 inhibitor that is used in severe COPD and may cause abdominal pain, weight loss, and depression"
"Dipyridamole is a nonspecific PDE inhibitor that prevents adenosine reuptake in platelets to cause vasodilation"
"Furosemide and HCTZ are diuretics that may cause pancreatitis as an adverse effect"
"Minocycline is a protein synthesis inhibiting antibiotic that can cause drug-induced lupus"
"Penicillamine is a chelating agent that may cause myopathy as an adverse effect"
"Growth hormone, tetracyclines, and vitamin A may cause idiopathic intracranial hypertension as an adverse effect"
"LymphoPlasmacytic Lymphoma (LPL)::Neoplasm is a proliferation of clonal mature B lymphocytes with some that differentiate into monoclonal plasma cells"
"In LymphoPlasmacytic Lyphoma, neoplastic cells in the bone marrow are a combination plasma cells and *lymphoid cells"
"Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia::Plasma cell disorder may present with lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly due to infiltration by monoclonal B cells"
"LymphoPlasmacytic Lymphoma (LPL) can present with anemia due to bone marrow replacement by tumor cells, which suppresses normal RBC production"
"In LymphoPlasmacytic Lymphoma, monoclonal plasma cells secrete IgM"
"In LymphoPlasmacytic Lymphoma, bone marrow biopsy displays > 10% monoclonal plasma cells in relation to bone marrow cells"
"In MGUS, bone marrow biopsy displays < 10% monoclonal plasma cells in relation to bone marrow cells"
"Tay-Sachs is a lysosomal storage disease caused by frameshift mutations"
"Gaucher disease is a lysosomal storage disease caused by splice site mutations"
"A decreased nasal nitric oxide production is used as a screening test for Kartagener syndrome"
"Oculocutaneous albinism is inherited in a(n) autosomal recessive fashion"
"Ocular albinism is inherited in a(n) X-linked recessive fashion"
"Trisomy 21 is associated with Brushfield spots, which are elevated white spots on the iris"
"BRCA1 is located on chromosome 17"
"BRCA2 is located on chromosome 13"
"Conversion of arginine to nitric oxide requires BH4 (tetrahydrobiopterin) as a cofactor"
"M. tuberculosis requires selective media such as Middlebrook medium and rapid automated broth cultures"
"Acinetobacter baumannii is a gram negative coccobacillus, obligate aerobe that causes resistant hospital-acquired infections"
"On liver biopsy, hepatitis C infections display lymphoid aggregates with focal areas of macrovesicular steatosis"
"Hepatitis B infections are more likely to cause membranous glomerulonephritis"
"Hepatitis C infections are more likely to cause membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN)"
"MDR pseudomonas and acinetobacter baumannii are treated with polymixins B + E (colisitin)"
"Praziquantel is an anti-helminthic agent that increases Ca2+ permeability and increases vacuolization"
"Ethylene oxide is a disinfectant that acts as an alkylating agent and is sporicidal"
"Diagnosis of Multiple myeloma is confirmed by bone marrow biopsy showing > 10% clonal plasma cells"
"Light chain deposition at the PCT in multiple myeloma may cause Fanconi syndrome (type 2 RTA)::which renal complication?"
"In multiple myeloma, renal insufficiency is partially due to amyloidosis, which deposits as extracellular fibrils in tissue"
"In multiple myeloma, renal insufficiency is partially due to excess serum concentrations of what ion? Calcium \metastatic calcification\\"\""
"Multiple myeloma may present with renal insufficiency due to a combination of amyloidosis, Bence Jones protein, direct toxicity, and hypercalcemia"
"In multiple myeloma, what mechanism may lead to lytic bone lesions (other than osteolytic cytokines)? (sorry) ↑ Expression of RANKL on osteoblasts → binds RANK on osteoclasts → ↑ bone resorption"
"A malignant plasma cell neoplasm is defined by production of monoclonal immunoglobin (\M protein\\")\""
"Which plasma cell neoplasm affects a single location (usually a bone lesion) and presents with no systemic symptoms? Solitary Plasmacytoma"
"Solitary plasmacytoma most commonly affects bone and causes pain or pathologic fractures::symptoms (2)"
"Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia may present with peripheral neuropathy due to sluggish blood flow in the peripheral nervous system"
"Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia may present with cryoglobulinemia, which manifests as raynaud phenomenon, uritcaria, purpura, and tissue necrosis"
"In alpha thalassemia intermedia, precipitation of Hemoglobin H into inclusion bodies may result extravascular hemolysis"
"Permanent airway remodeling due to recurrent bronchial inflammation (with eosinophils) is suggestive of chronic asthma"
"Bronchiectasis primarily affects the lower lobes of the lung"
"What is the most common cause of bronchiectasis worldwide? Tuberculosis"
"Prolonged interstitial lung disease may lead to respiratory failure secondary to pulmonary arterial hypertension"
"Pleural diseases (e.g. mesothelioma) and pleural effusions are both extrinsic::intrinsic/extrinsic restrictive lung diseases Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a(n) intrinsic::intrinsic/extrinsic restrictive lung disease"
"Obesity may cause chronic hypoxia, which leads to pulmonary hypertension and eventual cor pulmonale (right HF)"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a(n) intrinsic::intrinsic/extrinsic restrictive lung disease"
"Amphibole fibers in asbestos can penetrate the epithelium and enter the interstitium (more pathogenic than \serpentine\\" fibers)\""
"What risk factor worsens the symptoms and clinical course of all pneumoconioses? Tobacco smoke"
"Chronic exposure to coal may present with streaks of anthracotic pigment in the hilar lymph nodes::specific location"
"In silicosis, nodules coalesce to form large scars with areas of \honeycombing\\" in between (cystically dilated)\""
"In asbestosis, fibrosis progresses to large inelastic fibrous tissue segments with intervening areas of \honeycombing\\"\""
"In pneumoconiosis, release of growth factors leads to production of collagen, which causes restrictive lung disease"
"Which pneomoconioses may produce centriacinar emphysema predominently in the upper lobes of the lung? Simple coal worker's pneumoconiosis"
"In pneumoconioses, what happens to large particles (10-15 microns in diameter) in the lung? Trapped in the upper airway"
"In pneumoconioses, what happens to medium particles (5-10 microns in diameter) in the lung? Cleared by mucociliary transport in the trachea and bronchi"
"In pneumoconioses, what happens to small particles (1-5 microns in diameter) in the lungs? Trapped at the bifurcation of respiratory bronchioles"
"Which systemic inflammatory disease may present with hypercalcemia and increase the risk for calcium kidney stones? Sarcoidosis"
"Sarcoidosis may cause polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia due to helper T cell dysregulation"
"In sarcoidosis, pulmonary granulomas may be replaced by diffuse interstitial fibrosis"
"Sarcoidosis may cause anergy to common skin antigens that usually elicit a type IV HSR immune reaction"
"Sarcoidosis is more common in non-smokers::smokers/non-smokers"
"During the exudative phase of ARDS, initial alveolar injury is due to release of what by macrophages? Cytokines"
"ARDS presents with bilateral diffuse crackles::lung sound"
"Serum BNP is used to distinguish CHF from ARDS"
"S3/S4::Heart sounds (2) and JVD::clinical finding (1) are used to distinguish CHF from ARDS"
"What repair mechanisms occur (2) in the lung during the proliferative phase of ARDS? 1. Type II pneumocytes replicate & synthesize surfactant/ differentiate into type I pneumocytes & replenish epithelium 2. Pulmonary edema resolves"
"Adenocarcinoma of the lung has what characteristics on histology? Cuboidal to low columnar cells with hyperchromatic prominent nuclei"
"Lung cancer, especially central tumors, may present with wheezing::lung sound"
"Which stroke subtype is characterized by abrupt neurological symptoms that are typically maximal at the start? Embolic ischemic stroke"
"Do embolic strokes usually affect multiple territories or a single vascular territory? Multiple"
"What is the initial diagnostic test of choice in a patient with suspected acute stroke? Non-contrast CT scan of the head"
"Small vessels supplying the deep cerebellar nuclei::location are prone to hypertensive vasculopathy and hemorrhagic stroke"
"What form of imaging is more sensitive for detecting ischemic stroke? MRI::MRI/CT"
"Inflammation following brain infarction (e.g. meningitis/encephalitis) may cause cerebral edema resulting in vasogenic intracranial hypertension"
"Atherosclerosis, inflammation, vasopasm and sickle cell disease may cause large vessel ischemic strokes"
"Blockage of proximal vessels in acute stroke causes a(n) wedge-shaped area of ischemia on imaging (CT/MRI)"
"Brain trauma, inflammation (e.g. meningitis, encephalitis) and tumors can cause vasogenic intracranial hypertension"
"Increased vessel permeability and fluid accumulation outside of brain cells (interstitium) leads to vasogenic intracranial hypertension"
"Headache, seizures, and vomiting may present with intracranial hypertension"
"Sulcal effacement may be seen on CT/MRI imaging of intracranial hypertension"
"Is intracranial hypertension associated with a change in mental status? Yes (confusion, coma)"
"What is seen on imaging of cerebral edema? Loss of grey-white differentiation"
"Intracranial hypertension is defined as ICP > 20 mmHg"
"Idiopathic intracranial hypertension may cause pulsatile tinnitus"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus is a(n) idiopathic::etiology chronic enlargement of the ventricles with normal::decreased/normal/increased CSF pressure"
"Irritability, poor feeding, and developmental delay are indicative of intracranial hypertension in an infant"
"What is the most common glioma in adults? Astrocytomas"
"Ionizing radiation to the head and genetic syndromes (e.g. NF1, TS, VHL, Turcot) are risk factors for pediatric and adult CNS tumors"
"Altered mental status, headache, intracranial hypertension, and seizures are symptoms of pediatric and adult::pediatric/adult CNS tumors"
"Glioblastomas are most common in the frontal and temporal::2 lobes"
"Thick peripheral rim enhancement on MRI is the characteristic appearance of glioblastomas::which adult tumor?"
"Hemangioblastomas have normal::normal/abnormal capillary architecture"
"Metastases to the CNS typically display an area of central necrosis with surrounding vasogenic edema at the grey-white junction on MRI"
"What is useful for imaging of CNS tumors? MRI"
"Oligodendrogliomas are most frequent around age 40-50"
"Hemangioblastomas stain positive for PAS and are prone to hemorrhage::complication due to thin vascular walls"
"Which pediatric CNS tumor is well-circumscribed with solid and cystic component(s)? Ependymomas"
"Primary CNS germ cell tumors are most commonly germinomas (similar to testicular seminomas)"
"Infratentorial tumors may present with obstructive (non-communicating) hydrocephalus due to obstruction of the 4th ventricle"
"What pediatric CNS tumor is composed of cells with long \hairlike\\" processes? Pilocytic Astrocytomas\""
"Pinealoma::CNS tumor may lead to Parinaud syndrome"
"Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis will show fibrillation potentials and positive sharp waves on EMG and nerve conduction studies"
"The surgical neck of the femur is the most commonly factured bone following mild trauma (fall from standing) in severe osteoporosis::MSK disorder"
"The skull, femur, and pelvic bones are most commonly affected in Paget's disease::MSK disorder"
"In Osteoporosis, inflammatory cytokines decrease production of osteoprotegerin by osteoblasts & increase expression of RANK-L on osteoblasts, leading to increased bone resorption"
"What MSK pathology presents as dark areas of radiolucency (early disease) and abnormally thick bone (late disease) on x-ray? Paget disease of bone"
"Modifiable risk factors for osteoporosis and osteopenia include corticosteroids, smoking and heavy alcohol use"
"What effect do steroids have on estrogen production? Decreased (leading to increased bone resorption)"
"Rickets is due to decreased mineralization of hyaline cartilage (type II) of epiphyseal growth plates"
"Infants with rickets often have delayed closure of fontanelles"
"Decreased cartilage mineralization of open epiphyseal growth plates may cause short stature::physical appearance in children with rickets"
"Benign bone tumors most commonly occur in male teens::demographic"
"EnChondromas develop in the medullary cavity of the hand and feet::2 bones"
"What benign bone tumor affects men and women equally (most common in adolescents)? Enchondromas"
"Osteochondroma is a(n) slow::slow/rapid growing bone tumor commonly found at the distal femur (near the knee)::location"
"Osteochondromas are usually *painless"
"Chondrosarcomas usually occur in adults > 20 (most commonly >50 years)::demographic"
"Chondrosarcomas, Ewing sarcomas, and Osteosarcomas commonly metastasize to which location? Lungs (hematogenously)"
"On x-ray, Ewing sarcoma displays a \moth-eaten\\" appearance due to small areas of lucency in medullary cavity\""
"From which layer of bone does Ewing sarcoma originate? Medullary cavity (invades the cortex and periosteum)"
"What is the gross appearance of Ewing sarcoma? Tan-white with spots of necrosis and hemorrhage"
"Osteosarcomas often invade the medullary cavity"
"What is the area of bone that lies beneath articular cartilage? Subchondral bone plate (provides smooth surface for joint gliding)"
"Osteoarthritis starts as a result of the release of cytokines from chondrocytes, which exacerbates the inflammation via a positive feedback loop"
"Osteoarthritis may present with a(n) pannus, characterized by inflamed granulation tissue inside the joint capsule"
"In osteoarthritis, activated chondrocytes release Matrix Metalloproteinases (MMP), which induces destruction of ECM cartilage::tissue and chondrocytes::cell"
"Which arthritis is due to cycles of chronic local inflammation that induces chondrocytes to release MMPs & cytokines? Osteoarthritis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with irregular joint space narrowing, osteophytes, subcondral sclerosis, and subchondral cysts? Osteoarthritis"
"Examination findings of osteoarthritis may include enlarged joints, crepitus::sound with movement, and decreased::increased/decreased range of motion"
"Osteopetrosis may present with facial paralysis due to cranial nerve VII impingement"
"Infantile malignant osteopetrosis is a(n) autosomal recessive::inheritance pattern bone disorder that is often fatal in infancy due to severe leukopenia"
"Mild osteopetrosis is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern \marble bone disease\\" that presents in adolescence or adulthood::demographic\""
"What proteins compose the type 1 collagen triple helix (encoded by the COL1A2 & COL2A1 gene)? 2 alpha-1 chains & 1 alpha-2 chains"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a stillborn fetus with multiple limb fractures and a hypoplastic thoracic cavity? Type II osteogenesis imperfecta"
"Rheumatoid arthritis is a type III hypersensitivity reaction"
"When is the joint pain and stiffness in rheumatoid arthritis the worst? In the morning (typically lasts > 1 hour)"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is significantly more prevalent in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? Osteopenia/osteoporosis"
"Subchondral cysts, periarticular osteopenia and joint margin erosions on X-ray is suggestive of rheumatoid arthritis::diagnosis"
"In RA, macrophages, pathogens, and synovial tissue express peptidylarginine deaminase, which converts arginine residues to citrulline leading to antigen presentation and activation of CD4+ helper T cells"
"Exposure to citrullinated antigens (ACPA) in rheumatoid arthritis causes CD4+ helper T cells to infiltrate joints exacerbating cytokine release and inflammation"
"What is the etiology of a stiff, immobile neck in rheumatoid arthritis? Fusion of cervical vertebral facets (ankylosis)"
"Gout may be precipitated by dehydration due to hypovolemia and resultant increased uric acid concentration"
"The primary cause of pseudogout (CPPD) is most commonly idiopathic"
"Calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease may progress to pyrophosphate arthropathy, manifesting as joint destruction and arthritis"
"History of joint trauma, surgery, and old age are risk factors for pseudogout (CPPD)::MSK"
"What x-ray finding is characteristic of calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease (pseudogout)? Chondrocalcinosis (linear deposits of calcium within articular cartilage)"
"Chronic gout may lead to formation of a(n) pannus, which is a layer of granulation tissue inside the joint capsule due to ongoing inflammation"
"The synovial fluid of acute gout displays a high WBC::cell count"
"Mouth dropping, ptosis, thin distal forearms/hands, and a long narrow face are physical changes seen in myotonic dystrophy::MSK disorder"
"The myocytes in DMD, BMD, & Myotonic Dystrophy::DMD/ BMD/ Myotonic Dystrophy may display nuclei at the center::center/periphery of the cells"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy, arrhythmias, and heart failure are cardiac symptoms seen in DMD and BMD::DMD/BMD?"
"In DMD, BMD, & Myotonic Dystrophy::DMD/ BMD/ Myotonic Dystrophy, histology displays myocytes of different::the same/different sizes"
"Myotonic Dystrophy presents with abnormal gait and foot drop::2 physical symptoms due to weakness of ankle dosiflexors"
"Immunoblotting for dystrophin (present in BMD) will reveal a(n) brown halo at the myocyte cell membrane (absent in DMD)"
"Which neuromuscular junction pathology is characterized by proximal lower extremity muscle weakness? Lambert-Eaton syndrome::MG or LEMS"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with hypothyroidism and myasthenia gravis who presents with shallow respirations, tachypnea, and tachycardia? Myasthenic crisis"
"Myasthenia Gravis has a bimodal age distribution at ~20 and ~60"
"Myasthenia gravis may present with progressive bulbar palsy, characterized by dysarthria, dysphagia, and difficulty chewing"
"Which neuromuscular junction pathology is characterized by proximal upper extremity muscle weakness? Myasthenia Gravis::MG or LEMS"
"Squamous carcinoma in situ is also called Bowen's disease"
"What is the appearance of Bowen's disease on gross pathology? Well-defined, erythematous, scaly/crusting plaque *bonus: does it invade into epidermis?"
"Histologically, actinic keratosis displays hyperplastic keratinocytes with cytologic atypia in the stratum basale layer"
"Lesions in actinic keratosis are typically found in older adults::demographic in sun exposed areas (face, scalp, ears, hands)"
"Actinic keratosis is strongly associated with a mutation in the p53 tumor suppressor gene"
"UV damage to the dermis in actinic keratosis results in thick, amorphous deposits of damaged elastic tissue"
"Basal cell carcinoma is associated with inactivating mutations in the Patched-1 (PTCH1) gene, which activates the Sonic Hedgehog pathway"
"Which subtype of melanoma presents with darkly pigmented nodules? Nodular melanoma"
"On histology, large nuclei with eosinophilic nucleoli and numerous mitotic figures is suggestive of melanoma"
"What level of random serum glucose is diagnostic for type 2 diabetes mellitus? > 200 mg/dL on 2 separate occasions/1 symptomatic occasion"
"What polypeptide is co-secreted with insulin from β cells and assists in glycemic control? Amylin"
"What is the first step in management of T2DM after the diagnosis is made (A1C > 6.5%)? Life style changes and metformin"
"Type 1 DM is caused by autoimmune destruction of β cells by CD8+ T cells and autoantibodies produced by B cells"
"In normal pancreatic histology, Islets of Langerhans (contains endocrine cells) appear pale compared to acinar cells (exocrine cells)"
"Pancreatic beta cells that are unable to sustain a state of increased insulin production in type 2 DM is known as \β cell burnout\\"\""
"Which diabetes type (DM I or DM II) is associated with other autoimmune diseases? Type 1 DM"
"Obesity is an important risk factor for insulin resistance (particularly abdominal::location fat)"
"What endocrine pathology is associated with the loss of β cells and \β cell burnout\\"? Type II DM\""
"The incretin GLP may inadequately stimulate β cells and contribute to beta cell dysfunction in T2DM"
"Adipocytes, β cells, and FFAs cause release of cytokines (\adipokines\\")"
"Intracellular accumulation of triglycerides and FFAs contribute to insulin resistance in obesity via inhibition of insulin signaling"
"Accumulation of free fatty acids in macrophages and β cells leads to cytokine release and contributes to insulin resistance in obesity"
"Excess glucose and FFAs may contribute to β cell dysfunction"
"MODY is a(n) autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern disorder seen in in young patients that is similar to T2DM"
"Metabolic syndrome (syndrome-X) is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease and type 2 DM (insulin resistance)"
"What risk factor contributes to insulin resistance in both Metabolic Syndrome and Diabetes Mellitus? Excessive visceral abdominal adipose tissue"
"Metabolic syndrome is diagnosed when at least 3 of the 5 following criteria are met: 1. Abdominal obesity (waist circumference > 40 inches in males, > 35 inches in females) 2. Fasting glucose (> 100-110 mg/dL) 3. Blood pressure (> 130/80 mmHg) 4. Triglycerides (> 150 mg/dL) 5. HDL cholesterol (< 40 mg/dL in men, < 50 mg/dL in women)"
"What is a non-modifiable risk factor for Metabolic syndrome? Family history"
"Metabolic Syndrome may also be called Syndrome X"
"Pathogenesis of Guillain-Barré syndrome::demyelinating disorder involves activation of the humoral immune response, cellular immune response, and complement cascade"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome may cause autonomic dysfunction, which may manifest as arrhythmias and ileus"
"Chiari malformations (II and I) may compress the corticospinal motor tracts and lead to upper motor neuron dysfunction"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome may present with sudden-onset seizures and acute hemiparesis due to contralateral leptomeningeal angiomas::complication"
"In Sturge-Weber syndrome, leptomengeal angiomas are typically ipsilateral to the nevus flammeus"
"In Sturge-Weber syndrome, leptomeningeal angiomas increase vascularity of the pia and arachnoid mater (eventually grow into the subarachnoid space)"
"Tuberous Sclerosis may present with diffuse interstitial lung fibrosis, which may lead to dyspnea or pneumothorax"
"Tuberous Sclerosis may present with glioneuronal \corticol tubers\\" hamartomas most common in the cerebral cortex\""
"CNS hamartomas in Tuberous Sclerosis may present with non-communicating (obstructive) hydrocephalus due to CSF blockage"
"Tuberous Sclerosis may present with subependymal nodules, which are CNS hamartomas that line the ventricular system"
"What is used to diagnose vestibular schwannoma (acoustic neuroma)? MRI of the internal auditory canals"
"In NF1, cutaneous neurofibromas stain positive for S100"
"NF1 may present with other CNS tumors such as meningiomas, astrocytomas, and other gliomas"
"Which eye tumor is characterized as a benign astrocytoma with eosinophilic inclusion bodies (Rosenthal fibers)? Optic glioma"
"NF1 presents with neurofibromas, which are composed of schwann cells that form a(n) swirl::histologic characteristic of myelin around axons *bonus: benign or malignant? childhood or adulthood?"
"Vestibular Schwannomas are encapsulated::encapsulated/unencapsulated tumors of neoplastic Schwann cells with alternating areas of hypercellularity [Antoni A] & hypocellularity [Antoni B]"
"Vestibular schwannomas may impinge CN VII and cause facial muscle weakness / loss of taste to anterior tongue in NF2"
"Viral infections may contribute to the development of Multiple Sclerosis"
"Most common cause of optic neuritis is multiple sclerosis"
"What is the mechanism of urge and overflow incontinence in multiple sclerosis? UMN demyelination → Spastic/Hypertonic bladder (urge incontinence); LMN demyelination → overflow incontinence"
"Multiple Sclerosis may present with what symptoms due to autoimmune demyelination of the corticospinal tracts and/or prefrontal gyrus? 1. Clasp knife rigidity 2. Hyperreflexia"
"Multiple Sclerosis may be diagnosed with either MRI and/or lumbar puncture"
"Management of Multiple Sclerosis may include immunosuppresants such as Azathioprine, Methotrexate, & Cyclophosphamide"
"Which neurological pathology should be suspected in a patient with bilateral trigeminal neuralgia? Multiple sclerosis"
"Alzheimer's Disease presents with low acetylcholine levels due to decreased activity of choline acetyltransferase::enzyme"
"Alzheimer disease may present with executive cognitive dysfunction, characterized by difficulty organizing or planning"
"One feature of Alzheimer disease is visuospatial impairment, which is a loss of sense of \self\\" in relation to surroundings\""
"Onset of frontotemporal dementia typically occurs in the fifth or sixth decades of life with 25% inherited in a(n) autosomal dominant fashion"
"Is ALS associated with cognitive impairment? Yes (frontotemporal dementia)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with CD4 < 200 that presents with changes in personality and bizarre behavior? The patient also appears to have impaired attention and calculation. Brain MRI reveals a diffuse increase in intensity in the white matter. HIV-associated neurocognitive dysfunction"
"MRI that shows widespread cerebral/cerebellar atrophy with enhancement of the cortex, putamen and caudate head is suggestive of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD)"
"Neuropathology showing spongiform degeneration and vacuole formation in grey matter structures (e.g. caudate, putamen) without inflammation is suggestive of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient that has hepatosplenomegaly, resting tremor, dysarthria, parkinsonism, and dementia? Wilson disease"
"One clinical manifestation of Parkinson's disease is a(n) hypokinetic gait"
"What is the total body phosphate level in a type 1 diabetic patient (increased or decreased)? Decreased"
"Patients with T2DM in DKA can present with prerenal acute kidney injury (AKI)::what kidney complication?"
"In Diabetic Ketoacidosis, ketone bodies accumulate in the serum and are used as fuel in peripheral tissues"
"What are the effects of hyperglycemia (e.g. DKA/HHS) on serum sodium levels? Hyponatremia (low Na+)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with nausea/vomiting, weight loss, and polydipsia? Labs are significant for low HCO3- and high blood glucose/K+ levels. Diabetic ketoacidosis"
"Diabetic Ketoacidosis can present with increased serum cholesterol, triglycerides, and free fatty acids"
"Stress causes increased secretion of epinephrine::hormone and cortisol::hormone, particularly in the absence of insulin"
"Hyperosmolar Hyperglycemic State (HHS) may present with what symptoms? Hypovolemic shock, Hypotension, Seizures (HHS)::3"
"Diabetic autonomic neuropathy may present with syncope::symptom due to orthostatic hypotension and erectile dysfunction in men"
"Unperceived joint damage due to diabetic neuropathy may lead to formation of charcot joint (neurogenic arthropathy), which requires casting and orthotic footwear"
"Chronic diabetics are prone to recurrent infection due to poor wound healing, urinary retention, neutrophil dysfunction, and hyperglycemia"
"Microaneurysms are a sign of early non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy"
"The diffuse basement membrane thickening in diabetic microangiopathy is caused by overproduction of type IV collagen by vascular fibroblasts"
"Neovascularization in proliferative diabetic retinopathy may cause secondary closed-angle glaucoma"
"Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is prone to hemorrhage due to disorganized neovascularization"
"Diabetic neuropathy may cause cranial nerve palsies, especially affecting extraocular muscles [CN III, IV, and VI]"
"Advanced Glycation End Products (AGE) within endothelial cells cause release of inflammatory cytokines, reactive oxygen species, and growth factors"
"In diabetes, what can crosslink proteins leading to damage/dysfunction, especially in collagen? Advanced Glycation End Products (AGE)"
"Advanced Glycation End Products crosslink proteins thereby reducing intimal integrity in arteries (allowing LDL to enter vessel walls and cause atherosclerosis)"
"Advanced Glycation End Products (AGE) can bind to and activate receptors of AGE (RAGE) throughout the body"
"RAGE (Receptor of AGE)::Chronic diabetes complication activation can lead to release of growth factors, ROS, and inflammatory cytokines"
"Glucose can form covalent bonds with free amino groups on proteins without enzymes (non-enzymatic glycation) leading to formation of advanced glycation end products (AGE)"
"The degree of advanced glycation end product (AGE) formation is directly correlated with serum levels of what? Glucose"
"Diabetes is a risk factor for atherosclerosis due to chronic inflammation, lipid oxidation, and advanced glycation end products"
"Craniopharyngiomas most commonly occur where? Pituitary stalk (located suprasellar)"
"A craniopharyngioma may cause pressure necrosis and lead to hypopituitarism"
"Pituitary apoplexy may lead to cardiovascular collapse due to acute hypopituitarism causing decreased ACTH"
"Lymphocytic hypophysitis is an autoimmune disorder that causes hypopituitarism due to pituitary fibrosis and necrosis"
"Which autoimmune disorder in women may cause hypopituitarism during late pregnancy or the postpartum period? Lymphocytic Hypophysitis"
"What is the treatment for Lymphocytic Hypophysitis? Corticosteroids"
"Histology of Lymphocytic Hypophysitis displays an abundance of lymphocytes (blue nuclei)::what cell type?"
"In Sheehan syndrome, menses may not resume in the postpartum period due to decreased FSH and LH"
"What is the cause of increased pituitary size in pregnancy (Sheehan syndrome)? Increased estrogen (causes hyperplasia of prolactin-secreting cells)"
"Brain tumors and strokes affecting the hypothalamus can cause hypopituitarism"
"Radiation, brain injury, or surgery that leads to regression of the pituitary gland is referred to as secondary empty sella syndrome"
"A congenital anatomic defect with extension of dura into the sella that leads to hypopituitarism is referred to as primary empty sella syndrome"
"What is the diagnostic test used to confirm suspected primary adrenal insufficiency? Cosyntropin or ACTH stimulation test"
"Avascular necrosis of the head of the femur is most commonly due to insufficiency in the medial circumflex femoral artery"
"Primary and Secondary hypogonadism presents with increased GnRH"
"In men, hypogonadism presents with impotence and infertility due to testosterone deficiency"
"Hypogonadism may present with menopausal symptoms and premature ovarian failure in women"
"Absence of puberty (by age 14 in boys, age 12 in girls) and development of secondary sex characteristics is suggestive of secondary hypogonadism"
"What initial tests should be performed in a patient with suspected adrenal insufficiency? 1. Morning serum cortisol 2. Plasma ACTH 3. Cosyntropin stimulation test"
"What affect does secondary adrenal insufficiency have on serum sodium levels? Decreased (hyponatremia)"
"What are the effects of adrenal Insufficiency on serum glucose levels? Decreased (hypoglycemia)"
"Adrenal insufficiency may cause fatigue, muscle pain, and weakness due to decreased cortisol"
"Adrenal insufficiency may cause adrenal crisis::complication following a stressful event (e.g. surgery, infection), characterized by hypotensive shock, confusion, fever, and abdominal pain *bonus: next step in management?"
"Mineralcorticoid production by the adrenal gland is preserved in secondary and tertiary adrenal insufficiency"
"Growth hormone deficiency presents with delayed bone age on wrist x-rays"
"Immature face, infantile (\cherub-like\\") fat distribution"
"Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) is low in Growth Hormone deficiency"
"In Growth Hormone deficiency, L-DOPA and Arginine do not increase::increase/do not increse growth hormone secretion"
"Muscle loss, truncal obesity, and osteoporosis are clinical manifestations of growth hormone deficiency in adults"
"Administration of L-DOPA and Arginine normally leads to increased Growth Hormone secretion"
"Dysfunction of the hypothalamus gland leads to increased prolactin levels"
"Severing or injuring the pituitary stalk leads to increased serum prolactin levels *bonus: why?"
"Oxytocin and ADH deficiency are more common with hypothalamic::hypothalamic/posterior pituitary injury"
"Dysfunction of the hypothalamus::#1 structure and posterior pituitary::#2 structure may lead to decreased uterine contractions during childbirth and milk letdown in breastfeeding"
"Sloughed epithelial cell accumulation in tubular lumen (obstruction) exacerbates the reduced GFR in acute tubular necrosis::renal pathology"
"How does type 1 Diabetes Mellitus affect pancreatic islets on histology? Decreased number & size of pancreatic Islets"
"Women with acromegaly may show signs of masculinization (hirsutism), especially visible on the face"
"A patient with acromegaly may present with hypertrophic arthropathy due to hypertrophy and stiffening of synovial tissue"
"Acromegaly may present with obstructive sleep apnea due to tongue enlargement and upper airway obstruction"
"Gonadotrophic pituitary adenomas (LH, FSH) are almost always non-functional::functional/non-functional and cause headache/visual changes due to mass effect"
"McCune-Albright syndrome may present with precocious puberty or gigantism due to excess LH/FSH and GH"
"McCune-Albright syndrome may manifest as bone pain & fractures due to polyostotic fibrous dysplasia"
"Microsporidium is an opportunistic cause of diarrhea in HIV patients due to distortion of villous architecture without inflammation"
"Histopathologic findings of Microsporidium include small spores with a(n) diagonal or equatorial belt-like structure"
"Microsporidium is treated with albendazole for diarrhea or topical fumagillin for keratoconjunctivitis"
"GHomas (mammosomatotroph cells) may present with pituitary gigantism and lack of secondary sex characteristics in children"
"What is the next step for a patient on albuterol who develops muscle weakness, mild hand tremors, and decreased DTRs? Serum electrolyte levels and ECG"
"What are the effects of hypomagnesemia on serum potassium levels? Decreased (hypokalemia) *bonus: why?"
"Steroids cause ↑::↑↓ production of RANK-L and ↓::↑↓ production of osteoprotegerin"
"The etiology of Central Diabetes Insipidus is commonly idiopathic"
"Glucagonomas may cause GI symptoms due to secretion of glucagon and other molecules [e.g. secretin]"
"Glucagonomas may cause weight loss due to the catabolic action of glucagon (decreased storage of glycogen and fat)"
"Which endocrine tumor may present with neuropsychiatric symptoms (depression, dementia, psychosis, agitation)? Glucagonoma"
"Which endocrine tumor may cause venous thromboembolism (e.g. DVT or PE)? Glucagonomas"
"What is the most common pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor? Insulinoma"
"Osteopetrosis may present with vision loss due to optic nerve impingement"
"Primary biliary cholangitis can cause jaundice, pruritus, xanthomas and hyperpigmentation of the skin"
"Does alcoholic hepatitis result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Both"
"In diabetes insipidus, the elderly::demographic and infants::demographic are at greatest risk for hypernatremia"
"In Central Diabetes Insipidus, administration of desmopressin will increase urine osmolality"
"Nephrogenic Diabetes Inspidus may be treated with a(n) low-salt, low-protein diet"
"One common cause nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is lithium, which prevents proper aquaporin formation in principal cells"
"Nephrogenic Diabetes Insipidus may be caused by hypercalcemia or hypokalemia::electrolyte abnormalities (2)"
"Osmolality is derived primarily from serum sodium levels"
"In SIADH, the atria and ventricles release ANP and BNP, further contributing to urinary excretion of sodium"
"In SIADH, RAAS is deactivated due to detection of volume expansion, further contributing to urinary excretion of sodium"
"Stroke, meningitis, surgery, ectopic-producing tumor, and head trauma may cause SIADH::endocrine disorder"
"In SIADH, urinary sodium levels are increased (> 40 mEq/L)"
"What is the initial treatment for asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients with SIADH? Fluid restriction ± salt tablets"
"Histologically, thyroid tissue in Graves' disease shows diffuse follicular cell hyperplasia forming \papillae\\" that project into colloid\""
"In Grave's ophthalmopathy, activation of orbital fibroblasts causes accumulation of fibroblasts, adipose, and glycosaminoglycans"
"Graves' ophthalmoplegia may cause diplopia and decreased convergence"
"After administration of radioactive iodine (I-131), what does a nuclear scan of Graves' disease look like? Diffuse \hot\\" appearance (entire thyroid takes up iodine)\""
"Severe hypovolemia, tachyarrhythmias, high fever, and CNS dysfunction are suggestive of thyroid storm::endocrine disorder"
"Surgery, infection, trauma, childbirth and acute iodine load may precipitate thyroid storm in patients with hyperthyroidism"
"Tissue in a multinodular goiter may autonomously produce thyroid hormone (T4)"
"Toxic adenoma::Thyroid pathology often has an activating TSH receptor mutation leading to high T3/T4 levels and low TSH levels"
"Toxic adenomas::solitary nodule produces thyroid hormone independent of TSH leading to hyperthyroidism"
"Discrete areas of functional \hot\\" nodules after radioactive iodine (I-131) uptake is suggestive of toxic multinodular goiter\""
"Hypothyroidism may be associated with adrenal insufficiency::endocrine complication due to autoimmune disease or dysfunctional pituitary/hypothalamus"
"Hypothyroidism may contribute to development of atherosclerosis due to dyslipidemia and endothelial dysfunction"
"What is the cause of decreased HR, cardiac contractility, and cardiac output in hypothyrodism? Down-regulation of β-1 receptors and impaired Ca2+ flux in cardiac myocytes::2"
"Which type of muscle fibers undergo atrophy in hypothyroid myopathy? Fast twitch (type II) *bonus: why?"
"Hashimoto's thyroiditis is an irreversible hypothyroidism most commonly seen in women (age 45-65)::demographic"
"Cardiovascular collapse, hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, adrenal insufficiency, and hypothermia/confusion are complications seen in myxedema coma::endocrine"
"What may precipitate after longstanding severe hypothyroidism OR an acute stressor? Myxedema coma"
"Hypothyroidism may cause hypertension due to increased systemic vascular resistance *bonus: what causes the latter cloze?"
"Hypothyroidism may present with distal symmetric neuropathy in a \stocking glove\\" distribution\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in an asymptomatic patient with a slightly elevated TSH despite normal free T3/T4 levels? Subclinical hypothyroidism"
"Hashimoto's thyroiditis can cause fibrosis in the interstitium of the thyroid gland"
"Is Hashimoto's thyroiditis associated with other autoimmune disorders? Yes"
"Thyroid masses are much more likely to be malignant in males::gender and children::age group"
"Which thyroid malignancy may arise sporadically or from progression of papillary or follicular carcinoma? Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma"
"Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma is associated with loss of the p53::gene cell division checkpoint regulation"
"Which thyroid nodule, hyperfunctioning (\hot\\") or hypofunctioning (\\"cold\\")"
"Which thyroid malignancy is more common in iodine deficient areas? Follicular thyroid carcinoma"
"Follicular thyroid carcinoma is most common in older women::demographic and is the second most common thyroid malignancy"
"Which thyroid neoplasm may produce VIP, Serotonin, or ACTH? Medullary thyroid carcinoma"
"Which thyroid malignancy is usually solid with prominent areas of necrosis and hemorrhage? Medullary thyroid carcinoma"
"Medullary thyroid carcinoma may increase gut motility or decrease intestinal fluid absorption leading to diarrhea"
"Which thyroid malignancy forms nests of polygonal-shaped or spindle-shaped cells? Medullary thyroid carcinoma"
"Which thyroid tumor may display dense secretory granules in cytoplasm on electron microscope? Medullary thyroid carcinomas (neuroendocrine cells)"
"What is the most common thyroid nodularity? Multinodular goiter *bonus: why?"
"Papillary thyroid carcinomas are typically unencapsulated::encapsulated/unencapsulated"
"Which thyroid malignancy typically form \finger-like\\" projections without colloid or follicles? Papillary thyroid carcinoma\""
"Most cases of papillary thyroid carcinoma are due to activating mutations of the MAPK signaling pathway"
"What pregnancy complication is associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis? Miscarriage"
"Most solitary thyroid nodules are benign::benign or malignant, fluid-filled cysts"
"What is the second most common thyroid malignancy? Follicular thyroid carcinoma"
"What drug blocks production of T3 and T3 receptors (and is directly toxic to the thyroid gland)? Amiodarone"
"Acute inflammation causes follicular rupture, which leads to transient hyperthyroidism in subacute granulomatous thyroiditis::thyroid disorder (acute phase)"
"What is the likely outcome in most cases of subacute granulomatous thyroiditis? Complete recovery (return to euthyroid state)"
"Chronic granulomatous thyroiditis is thought to involve HLA-B35 polymorphisms and viral infection"
"What is the most common cause of hypothyroidism (endemic goiter) worldwide? Iodine deficiency"
"67% of patients with Riedel's thyroiditis will have anti-thyroid autoantibodies that do not cause::cause/do not cause disease"
"In Riedel's thyroiditis, release of cytokines (e.g. TGF-β, IL-13) leads to fibroblast activation and fibrosis"
"Many cases of Riedel's thyroiditis progress to subclinical and overt hypothyroidism"
"Inflammation in Riedel's thyroiditis spreads::spreads/does not spread to surrounding tissue"
"The early phase of painless (silent) thyroiditis is associated with high titers of anti-TPO and anti-thyroglobulin::2 antibodies"
"Silent thyroiditis usually presents with a(n) painless::painful/painless goiter"
"Painless (silent) thyroiditis is often characterized by an initial brief hyper-thyroid phase followed by a(n) hypo-thyroid phase"
"Primary hyperparathyroidism is most common in older women::demographic"
"Which hyperparathyroidism(s) present with increased secretion of PTH? All three :) (1,2, & 3)"
"Heart failure, hypotension, and shock may be caused by hypocalcemia"
"Tertiary hyperparathyroidism presents with increased serum calcium and increased serum phosphate"
"What is the treatment for tertiary hyperparathyroidism? Parathyroidectomy"
"What affect does tertiary hyperparathyroidism have on the size of the parathyroid glands? Marked nodular hyperplasia *bonus: due to what?"
"Primary and Tertiary hyperparathyroidism may cause metastatic calcification in lungs, brain, and skin"
"Tertiary hyperparathyroidism presents with what levels of serum vitamin D (calcitriol)? Decreased (low Vitamin D)"
"What can be used to localize hyperfunctioning parathyroid tissue prior to surgery? Technetium-99m-sestamibi radionuclide scan"
"Elevated PTH may cause type II RTA (non-anion gap metabolic acidosis)::what acid-base disorder?"
"Hypercalcemia may cause peptic ulcer disease due to excessive calcium stimulating gastrin release in the stomach"
"Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome-1 is characterized by a triad of hypoparathyroidism, adrenal insufficiency and chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis"
"Parathyroid adenomas display well-encapsulated sheets::characteristic of purple::color chief cells"
"Subperiosteal thinning may occur in the clavicles, phalanges, and skull due to elevated PTH"
"In a single parathyroid adenoma, the other 3 normal parathyroid glands undergo atrophy *bonus: why?"
"Hypoparathyroidism may be caused by radiation to the head and neck"
"Surgical removal of a hyperfunctioning parathyroid causes a rapid increase in bone mineralization *bonus: why?"
"Hungry bone syndrome is characterized by a(n) decrease in serum Ca2+, PO43-, and Mg2+ > 1 week after parathyroidectomy"
"One clinical feature of Cushing disease is hyperpigmentation, due to increased levels of MSH cleaved from proopiomelanocortin"
"The hyperpigmentation seen in ACTH-secreting pituitary adenomas is most evident in sun and trauma exposed areas"
"Glucocorticoids have some intrinsic mineralocorticoid activity, manifesting as increased sodium reabsorption and volume retention"
"Excessive glucocorticoids inhibit GnRH release, manifesting as abnormal menses in women"
"Mifepristone, Mitotane, Metyrapone, Ketoconazole can be used to treat hypercortisolism"
"What drug may be useful in the treatment of hypertension-induced by hypercortisolism? Spironolactone *bonus: via what mechanism?"
"What are the serum ACTH levels in tertiary adrenal insufficiency? Decreased ACTH"
"What are the serum CRH levels in tertiary adrenal insufficiency? Decreased CRH"
"Tertiary adrenal insufficiency is caused by lack of CRH::hormone due to tumor, radiation, exogenous steroids, etc."
"The adrenal glands in tertiary adrenal insufficiency are characterized by atrophy of both adrenal glands::hyperplasia, atrophy; one, both"
"N. meningitidis, sepsis, and septic shock may cause bilateral adrenal hemorrhage"
"Addison disease presents with irregular menses in women due to decreased androgen production"
"What is the most sensitive screening test for primary hypothyroidism? High TSH"
"What is the most sensitive screening test for hyperthyroidism? Low TSH"
"Bone pain, fever, weight loss and abdominal pain (with abdominal mass) may present in a patient with a(n) neuroblastoma::what endocrine tumor?"
"Sheets of small blue round cells organized around a central space \Homer-Wright rosettes\\" characterizes histology of neuroblastomas::which endocrine tumor?\""
"Familial pheochromocytomas are more likely to be bilateral"
"Which endocrine tumor is characterized by granular cytoplasm and small nests of spindle-like chromaffin cells \Zellballen\\"? Pheochromocytoma\""
"Which endocrine tumor is characterized grossly by a yellow-tan color (with well-defined margins) and areas of hemorrhage? Pheochromocytoma"
"Gastrinomas may cause peptic ulcer disease due to elevated gastrin levels"
"What is the most common cause of death in MEN1? Pancreatic tumors"
"After surgical removal, tumors in multiple endocrine neoplasias usually do::do/do not recur"
"Multiple endocrine neoplasia is characterized by tumor formation in multiple endocrine organs that occurs in young adults (age <35)::age group"
"What is a risk factor for multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN)? Family history of endocrine tumors"
"MEN 2A is associated with parathyroid hyperplasia, which causes primary hyperparathyroidism with elevated serum calcium & PTH"
"Multiple endocrine neoplasia presents with multiple, sometimes bilateral::unilateral/bilateral tumors"
"Does medullary thyroid cancer in MEN2A and MEN2B occur sporadically? No; occurs after parafollicular C cell hyperplasia"
"MEN2B may cause intestinal ganglioneuromatosis, which is a hamartomatous proliferation of neural tissue in the intestinal muscular layer"
"MEN 2B may present with constipation or diarrhea due to diffuse intestinal ganglioneuromatosis"
"What is the effect of primary adrenal insufficiency on the release of ADH from the posterior pituitary? Increased *bonus: why?"
"11-hydroxylase deficiency leads to a build up of 11-deoxycorticosterone and 11-deoxycortisol::2"
"What effect does 11- and 21-hydroxylase deficiency have on serum levels of aldosterone? Decreased"
"What effect does 11-hydroxylase deficiency have on serum levels of cortisol? Decreased"
"17-hydroxylase deficiency presents with delayed menarche (or amenorrhea) due to decreased estrogen in females"
"21-hydroxylase deficiency (congenital adrenal hyperplasia) may cause a type 4 renal tubular acidosis"
"21-hydroxylase deficiency may present with hypovolemic shock"
"11, 17, and 21 hydroxylase deficiencies are autosomal recessive::inheritance pattern"
"Mild 11 and 21-hydroxylase deficiency can present in adolescence with acne::skin due to hyperandrogenism"
"In females, 11- and 21-hydroxylase deficiency may present with irregular menses::symptom and infertility::symptom due to hyperandrogenism"
"What is the first-line treatment for a patient with Cushing's syndrome with hypercortisolism and low ACTH? Adrenalectomy"
"Congenital adrenal hyperplasia leads to hyperpigmentation::skin finding"
"Aldosterone-secreting adenomas often display \spironolactone bodies\\""
"Primary hyperaldosteronism activates \aldosterone escape\\""
"Adrenal gland carcinoma and ectopic aldosterone-secreting tumors (kidney, ovaries) may cause primary hyperaldosteronism"
"Primary hyperaldosteronism initially causes severe volume overload and hypertension"
"1° hyperaldosteronism does not directly cause edema or hypernatremia due to aldosterone escape and pressure naturesis mechanisms"
"Primary hyperaldosteronism may present with increased renal blood flow and increased glomerular filtration rate"
"Do aldosterone-secreting adenomas cause atrophy of the contralateral adrenal gland? No"
"The diagnosis of primary hyperaldosteronism may be confirmed with adrenal suppression testing after a(n) oral saline load"
"Congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, nephrotic syndrome, and excessive peripheral edema may cause secondary hyperaldosteronism"
"One finding in the Cushing reaction is hypertension, which is caused by increased sympathetic tone"
"What effect does 11β-hydroxylase deficiency have on serum potassium levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"What affect does 21β-hydroxylase deficiency have on blood pressure? Decreased (Hypotension)"
"In addition to inflammatory infiltrate with myocyte necrosis and muscle regeneration, both polymyositis and dermatomyositis present with what else on biopsy? Fibrosis"
"What effect does 17α-hydroxylase deficiency have on blood pressure? Increased (hypertension)"
"An exophytic mass with bleeding and ulcerations is the characteristic gross appearance of intestinal::diffuse/intestinal-type gastric adenocarcinoma"
"What iatrogenic risk factor may result in gastroparesis? Surgery"
"Small bowel obstruction may present with colicky::description abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, and *constipation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with episodic RUQ pain, hypovolemic shock, and a solid liver mass with free fluid in the abdomen on U/S? Hepatic adenoma"
"Which autoimmune disease may present with immunoflourescene and liquefactive degeneration/edema at the dermoepidermal skin junction? SLE"
"The hallmark of Chikungunya fever is severe joint symptoms"
"Lubiprostone is a(n) chloride channel agonist that is used to treat constipation"
"Procalcitonin is an acute phase reactant (APR) that rises::rises/falls with bacterial toxins and falls::rises/falls with viral infections"
"Phentermine, diethylpropion, and benzphetamine are sympathomimetic::MOA drugs used for weight loss"
"Ichthyosis vulgaris is caused by a mutation in the filaggrin gene, resulting in dry, scaly skin"
"What indicates a positive dihydrorhodamine flow cytometry test for CGD? Minimal green flourescence (lack of rhodamine)"
"Vestibular Schwannomas may impinge CN VIII causing sensorineural hearing loss, vertigo, and nystagmus in NF2"
"In NF2, Vestibular Schwannomas may impinge CN V and cause loss of facial sensation and masseter weakness"
"What reproductive pathology is characterized by decidualized endometrium only (e.g. dilated, coiled endometrial glands, vascularized edematous stroma)? Ectopic pregnancy"
"Acute interstitial nephritis is a less common cause of intrinsic AKI"
"Dietary recommendations for patients with renal calculi include ↑ fluid intake, ↓ Na+ intake, and normal Ca2+ intake"
"Decreased dietary intake of what may cause calcium oxalate kidney stone formation? Calcium *bonus: why?"
"CIN1 is another name for LSIL and CIN2/CIN3 is another name for HSIL"
"Why do columnar cells undergo benign squamous metaplasia at the cervical squamocolumnar junction? Acidic pH (3.8-4.5) in the vagina (due to lactobacilli there)"
"Endocervical polyps are most common in what demographic? Multiparous middle-aged women"
"Endocervical polyps are benign::benign or malignant polyps that are lined by mucus-secreting columnar cells arising from the endocervix"
"Endometrial polyps are benign polyps that often present with intermenstrual spotting::bleeding characteristic without uterine enlargement"
"Which form of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) is at the highest risk of progressing to cervical cancer? CIN2/3 (HSIL)"
"What is the vulvar counterpart of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN)? Vulvular intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN 1-3)"
"What reproductive pathology appears as clear vacuolated cells on histology? Clear cell adenocarcinoma"
"What cause of abnormal uterine bleeding has a small risk of underlying endometrial cancer? Endometrial polyps"
"The menses of a patient with adenomyosis commonly presents with menorrhagia::symptom and dysmenorrhea::symptom"
"Submucosal leiomyomas (fibroids) may cause infertility::complication and menorrhagia"
"Large anterior fibroids may cause obstructive urinary (urgency or incomplete emptying) symptoms::symptom"
"PCOS, early menarche, late menopause, nulliparity are ovulatory cycle-related risk factors for endometrial hyperplasia"
"What is a risk factor for endometrial hyperplasia due to increased aromatization of androgens to estrogen? Obesity (excess adipose tissue)"
"The risk of endometrial hyperplasia is reduced with use of OCPs *bonus: why?"
"Endometrial hyperplasia may cause bleeding in premenopausal and postmenopausal::premenopausal/postmenopausal? women"
"The nonsurgical treatment for endometriosis consists of NSAIDs and OCPs"
"Large posterior fibroids may cause obstructive constipation::symptom"
"Fibroids (leiomyomas) may be found in submucosal, intramural, and subserosal::locations (3) parts of the uterine wall"
"What treatment for PCOS decreases the risk of hyperplasia and cancer? OCPs"
"Hirsutism, male-pattern baldness, and increased muscle mass may be seen in females with PCOS::which reproductive disorder?"
"Patients with PCOS may have infertility and irregular menses due to anovulation from failed follicular maturation"
"The follicles in a patient with PCOS::reproductive pathology present on examination as multiple small cysts (immature follicles)"
"In the follicular phase, what hormone stimulates development of multiple follicles? FSH"
"What hormone is responsible for developing a single dominant follicle? LH"
"Which reproductive pathology is the most common cause of anovulation? PCOS"
"In PCOS, excess androgens in the ovaries may cause granulosa cell dysfunction"
"Why is weight loss a first-line treatment for PCOS? Decreases insulin resistance"
"Why does PCOS increase the risk of endometrial hyperplasia and cancer? Exposure to estrogen only, without progesterone"
"What medication is used to reverse hyperinsulinism caused by PCOS? Metformin"
"In PCOS, weight loss treatment can decrease androgen levels resulting in what benefit? Restored fertility (ovulatory cycles start)"
"Endothelial injury may lead to a prothrombotic state due to activation of endothelin and tissue factor"
"What is the direct cause of lack of estrogen production in Turner syndrome? Atrophic ovaries \streak ovaries\\"\""
"Primary amenorrhea is defined by absence of menarche by age 15"
"Congenital GnRH deficiency, ovarian dysfunction, and Turner syndrome are causes of primary amenorrhea with absent secondary sex characteristics"
"Müllerian agenesis and imperforate hymen are causes of primary amenorrhea with normal secondary sex characteristics"
"Congenital GnRH deficiency presents with decreased secretion of FSH::hormone and LH::hormone"
"Why is there absence of secondary sex characteristics in congenital GnRH deficiency? Total lack of estrogen"
"What is the most common cause of secondary amenorrhea? Pregnancy"
"Acquired GnRH deficiency (secondary amenorrhea) may be due to severe stress, excessive exercise, and anorexia"
"Acquired GnRH deficiency presents with decreased FSH, decreased LH, and decreased estrogen"
"Which hormone is directly decreased in ovarian dysfunction that leads to primary amenorrhea? Estrogen"
"Primary amenorrhea due to ovarian dysfunction presents with increased FSH levels and increased LH levels"
"Repeated endometrial infection and uterine surgeries may cause Asherman syndrome, which manifests as secondary amenorrhea"
"Hypothalamic and pituitary dysfunction may cause secondary amenorrhea due to lack of GnRH and LH/FSH"
"Follicular cysts may cause sterile peritonitis (due to rupture)::complication and ovarian torsion::complication, presenting with severe abdominal pain"
"Corpus luteum cysts occur when the structure left behind after egg rupture fills with fluid, which often occurs during pregnancy"
"What type of ovarian cancer would you suspect in a postmenopausal female with SBO, renal failure, pleural effusions, and ascites? Epithelial cell cancer"
"Nulliparity, early menarche, and late menopause are risk factors for epithelial ovarian cancer due to increased lifetime ovulatory cycles"
"What cell morphology is ovarian surface epithelium? Cuboidal"
"Sodium intake, obesity (sedentary lifestyle), and alcohol intake are modifiable risk factors for primary hypertension"
"Cocaine and methamphetamines are illicit drugs may cause secondary hypertension"
"What is used to confirm the diagnosis of a suspected struma ovarii (subtype of cystic teratoma) after pelvic ultrasound? Pelvic radioimaging (shows uptake of iodine-123 or iodine-131)"
"What might be the underlying cause of severe pelvic pain in a premenopausal female with a mature cystic teratoma? Ovarian torsion"
"Which ovarian tumor is associated with peripheral precocious puberty and postmenopausal bleeding? Granulosa-theca tumors"
"Which ovarian tumor is associated with cuboidal cells in a rosette pattern with an eosinophilic center or \coffee bean\\" nuclei? Granulosa-theca tumors\""
"Which testicular tumor secretes massive amounts of testosterone and estrogen, leading to precocious puberty and gynecomastia? Sertoli-Leydig cell tumor"
"Pathogenesis of dermatomyositis involves upregulation of type 1 interferon::signaling molecule, which leads to damage of muscle fibers and capillaries"
"What cells are involved in the type IV hypersensitivity reaction of Hashimoto's thyroiditis? 1. CD8+ cytotoxic T cells (target follicular cells) 2. CD4+ cells (release cytokines) 3. Macrophages (invade thyroid gland)"
"MEN1 and MEN2A may cause primary hyperparathyroidism"
"Radiation to the chest and pulmonary fibrosis are risk factors for lung cancer"
"Secondary infection of diabetic foot ulcers may lead to gangrene requiring amputation::treatment"
"Secondary hyperparathyroidism over time often results in parathyroid hyperplasia"
"Central hypothyroidism presents with decreased free T4 levels and decreased serum TSH"
"Lewy body dementia is characterized by dementia and visual hallucinations::early finding followed by parkinsonism in < 1 year"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome may present with respiratory failure due to paralysis of motor neurons innervating the diaphragm"
"Chronic Myeloid Leukemia may present with hemorrhage due to depletion of vWF by excessive platelets"
"The type II hypersensitivity reaction component of Hashimoto's thyroiditis involves what autoantibodies? 1. Anti-thyroglobulin (anti-Tg) 2. Anti-thyroid peroxidase (anti-TPO) 3. Anti-TSH receptor"
"Age extremes <15 or >35, previous miscarriage, history of molar pregnancy, and *infertility are risk factors for molar pregnancy"
"What physical symptom do complete moles, partial moles, and choriocarcinoma all share? Vaginal bleeding"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent girl at 15 weeks gestation that presents with symptoms of preeclampsia with severe features? Hydatidiform mole"
"What is the size of the uterus with partial moles relative to gestational age? Normal (or slightly small)"
"Partial moles are positive for p57, which is a protein expressed by a maternal allele"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 6-month postpartum woman that presents with irregular vaginal bleeding, an enlarged uterus, and dyspnea with multiple infiltrates on CXR? Choriocarcinoma"
"Choriocarcinomas may present with hemoptysis::symptom due to lung metastasis"
"Liver pain (RUQ), headaches, and vision changes are signs of end-organ dysfunction due to preeclampsia"
"Tubal ligation, endometriosis and PID increase the risk of ectopic pregnancy"
"Exposure to what medication in utero increases the risk of ectopic pregnancy? Diethylstilbestrol (DES)"
"When does gestational diabetes resolve? After delivery of the placenta"
"Which gestational disorder may present with minimal vaginal bleeding, focal pain, and a distended uterus with high-frequency contractions? Concealed placental abruption"
"Maternal complications associated with placental abruption include DIC and hypovolemic shock"
"In addition to painful vaginal bleeding, placenta abruption may present with painful, prolonged uterine contractions"
"What is the most common risk factor for placental abruption? Hypertension"
"Severe hemorrhage during pregnancy or after delivery may lead to DIC::serious condition and/or hypovolemic shock"
"Systemic endothelial dysfunction due to preeclampsia can lead to what systemic condition? Hypertension (due to systemic vasoconstriction)"
"Preeclampsia may present with peripheral edema::physical exam finding due to systemic endothelial dysfunction and increased capillary permeability"
"What may be the cause of RUQ pain in preeclampsia? Liver swelling (stretches liver capsule)"
"Risk of preeclampsia increases with older age::age and first::1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc pregnancy"
"Polyhydramnios causes the uterus to be larger than expected for gestational age, whereas oligohydramnios causes the uterus to be smaller than expected for gestational age"
"Anencephaly may result in poly-hydramnios"
"High fetal cardiac output and maternal diabetes may cause polyhydramnios due to increased fetal urination"
"What hematologic pathology may cause increased fetal cardiac output with resultant polyhydramnios? Fetal anemia"
"Exposure to ACE inhibitors/ARBs::drug class in utero may cause oligohydramnios"
"What pathology may form from milk trapping due to mammary duct obstruction? Galactocele"
"What is the most common inciting event for development of mastitis? Nipple trauma"
"Aside from discharge, mammary duct ectasia may present with breast pain::symptom due to inflammation"
"Mammary duct ectasia may display radio-opacities on mammogram"
"What is the most common non-proliferative breast lesion? Breast cysts"
"Mammography of breast cysts may display radio-opacities due to calcification of fluid within cysts"
"What is the histological appearance of papillary apocrine change? Granular ductal epithelial cells (purple)::color"
"Papillary apocrine change is characterized by growth of ductal epithelial cells that appears similar to apocrine glands"
"How does non-proliferative fibrocystic change of the breast present symptomatically in premenopausal women? Cyclic mastalgia (breast pain)"
"What histological appearance do ductal hyperplasia and atypical epithelial hyperplasia share? Small purple nuclei"
"A well-defined, rubbery, mobile, painless breast mass describes fibroadenomas::which benign neoplasm?"
"Phyllodes tumors morphologically appear similar to fibroadenomas::breast mass"
"Spontaneous, unilateral serosanguinous nipple discharge is followed up with mammography → ultrasound::imaging and biopsy::management"
"What is a potential negative outcome of intraductal papilloma? Underlying cellular atypia transforming into breast cancer"
"What effect does mechanical nipple stimulation have on the release of prolactin? Increased (galactorrhea)"
"What general locations make up the epithelial components of the breast? 1. Lobule 2. Duct 3. Nipple"
"What component of the breast is affected in fat necrosis? Stroma (fatty and fibrous connective tissue)"
"BRCA1/2 are autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern tumor suppressor genes, thus family history is a risk factor for breast cancer"
"What is the next step in management for confirmed DCIS? Lumpectomy, radiation and hormonal therapy::Treatment"
"Invasive ductal breast carcinoma presents as a spiculated soft tissue mass with clustered microcalcifications on mammogram"
"Which breast cancer is characterized histologically by nests of purple glandular tissue surrounded by dense pink fibrous stroma? Invasive ductal carcinoma"
"Inflammatory breast cancer metastasizes early due to early invasion of the lymphatic system"
"Cryptorchidism associated with a genetic disorder is more likely to be bilateral"
"Why can hypogonadism or genetic disorders that cause abnormal sexual development lead to cryptorchidism? Androgens affect testicular descent"
"Cryptorchidism may be complicated by testicular torsion since the undescended testicle is not properly secured inferiorly"
"Varicocele is most noticeable with standing::body position and improved with lying supine::body position"
"What is the treatment for cryptorchidism (decreases cancer risk)? Surgery (orchiopexy)"
"Hydrocele presents with painless swelling of the scrotum"
"What is the most common malignancy in males between the ages of 15-35? Testicular cancer"
"Cryptorchidism increases the risk of testicular cancer **bonus: what is the most common type?"
"Benign prostatic hyperplasia may present with urgency (intense feeling to void) and increased::increased/decreased frequency of micturition"
"Although rare, chronic urinary retention in benign prostatic hyperplasia can lead to what complication? Recurrent UTIs"
"Chronic urinary obstruction from BPH may cause post-renal AKI::long-term end consequence"
"What is a modifiable risk factor for prostate adenocarcinoma? Smoking"
"Non-modifidable risk factors for prostate adenocarcinoma include ethnicity and family history of prostate carcinoma"
"On DRE, prostate cancer presents with asymmetric::symmetric/asymmetric enlargement, nodule formation and areas of induration"
"What infectious etiology other than high risk HPV increases the risk for penile squamous cell carcinoma? HIV"
"What is a modifiable risk factor for penile squamous cell carcinoma? Smoking"
"Penile squamous cell carcinoma is characterized by a painless lesion (on glans or foreskin) in older men::demographic"
"How is penile carcinoma in situ different from penile squamous cell carcinoma? No invasion of basement membrane"
"Hypospadias may present with post-renal AKI and hydronephrosis at birth due to urinary outlet obstruction"
"Early renal amyloidosis affects mesangium::location, whereas later progression of renal amyloidosis affects glomerular capillaries::location"
"Many patients with thromboangiitis obliterans::vasculitide will demonstrate a hypersensitivity reaction to dermal injection of tobacco extract"
"The Swiss cheese model focuses on systems and conditions rather than an individual's error"
"A(n) active error occurs at level of front line operator while a(n) latent error occurs in processes indirect from operator, but impacts patient care"
"Imiquimod can be used to treat urogenital warts by activating TLR-7, leading to unregulated pro-inflammatory transcription factor NF-kB which initiates the immune response"
"Moraxella catarrhalis is normal flora of the respiratory tract"
"Moraxella catarrhalis is transmitted through respiratory droplets"
"What is the oxygen dependency of Moraxella catarrhalis? obligate aerobe"
"Moraxella catarrhalis is associated with causing COPD exacerbations, otitis media in children, and sinusitis"
"An effective treatment for Moraxella catarrhalis is amoxicillin and clavulanic acid"
"The clinical manifestations of Enteroinvasive E. coli are similar to shigella"
"Peptostreptococcus, Fusobacterium, Prevotella, and Bacteroides fragilis are associated with decubitus ulcers"
"Peptostreptococcus, Fusobacterium, Prevotella, and Bacteroides are all associated with surgical drainage::what specific infections"
"Bacteroides fragilis is part of the normal colonic flora"
"Burkholderia cepacia causes pneumonia in patients with cystic fibrosis"
"Burkholderia cepacia is catalase positive"
"Acinetobacter baumannii is catalase positive"
"Acinetobacter baumannii can cause ventilator-associated pneumonia"
"Klebsiella granulomatis is most prevalent in Africa::what part of the world?"
"What type of virus is HTLV-1? Positive sense RNA::DNA, RNA (sense), etc"
"HIV and HTLV-1 are both retroviruses::what specific type of positive sense RNA viruses?"
"HTLV-1 is icosahedral::helical or icosahedral"
"HTLV-1 is enveloped::naked or enveloped"
"Pediculus humanus/Phthirus pubis (lice) drink human blood"
"Should children with Pediculus humanus/Phthirus pubis (lice) be kept home from school? No"
"Pediculus humanus/Phthirus pubis (lice) can transmit Borrelia recurrentis, Rickettsia prowazekii, and Bartonella quintana"
"Coronavirus is a(n) positive::positive or negative-sense RNA virus that is enveloped::enveloped or non-enveloped?"
"Low-pathogenicity coronavirus strains can cause the common cold"
"High-pathogenicity strains of coronavirus can cause MERS, SARS-COV1, and SARS-COV2::3 relevant diseases"
"High-pathogenicity strains of coronavirus are zoonotic"
"Low-pathogenicity strains of coronavirus cause the common cold are transmitted solely by humans"
"SARS-CoV is the cause of SARS"
"MERS-CoV is the cause of MERS"
"SARS-CoV-2 is the cause of COVID-19"
"The helical nucleocapsid of coronavirus is a(n) N protein bound to RNA genome"
"Envelope proteins of coronavirus include M, E, and S::3"
"The S glycoprotein of coronavirus is heavily glycosylated"
"Coronavirus binds to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) on type II alveolar cells in the respiratory tract via the S glycoprotein"
"After viral uncoating, the positive-sense genomic RNA of coronavirus can be translated into 2 long polyproteins"
"After the replication-transcription complex is assembled, the positive-sense genomic RNA of coronavirus can be transcribed into negative-sense RNA"
"Subgenomic RNA of coronavirus can be used to make S, M, E, and N::what 4 proteins"
"Full-length negative-sense RNA is used to make new positive-sense RNA of coronavirus"
"After translation, the S, M, and E proteins of coronavirus are transported to the Golgi apparatus::what organelle?"
"The N protein of coronavirus forms the nucleocapsid in the cytoplasm after associating with newly synthesized genomic RNA"
"After cleavage of the coronavirus long polyprotein by viral protease, these proteins assemble into the replication-transcription complex"
"The key member of the replication-transcription complex of coronavirus is the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RDRP)"
"The newly synthesized coronavirus viral proteins, nucleocapsid, and positive-sense progeny RNA bud from the Golgi apparatus"
"Functional coronavirus virions are transported from the Golgi to the cell membrane and exocytosed"
"Coronavirus is transmitted by airborne or droplet transmission"
"High-pathogenicity strains of coronaviruses can cause potentially fatal pneumonia"
"Coronavirus has a wide range of presentations, from asymptomatic to cough and fever::mild symptoms to pneumonia::moderate disease to ARDS::most severe presentation"
"Patients who develop ARDS may require mechanical ventilation"
"The immune overdrive seen in ARDS in patients with coronavirus may be related to cytokine storm"
"Active coronavirus infection is detected using nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT)"
"Previous coronavirus infections are detected using serologic assays"
"Active coronavirus infection can be diagnosed by detecting antigens (e.g. nucleocapsid proteins)"
"What do we say to all those bravely fighting on the frontlines during this pandemic? Thank you"
"The spinal cord ends at the L2 level for adults"
"The spinal cord ends at the L3 level for children"
"In a lumbar puncture, the needle is inserted at the L3/L4 or L4/L5 level"
"The iliac crest can be used as a landmark for a lumbar puncture"
"What adverse event could happen if a lumbar puncture is performed on a patient with high intracranial pressure? Cerebellar tonsils may herniate through the foramen magnum"
"IV disc herniation usually occurs at what LUMBAR levels? L4/L5 or L5/S1"
"IV disc herniation usually occurs at what CERVICAL levels? C5/C6 or C6/C7"
"IV disc herniation is commonly caused by degeneration of the anulus fibrosus and compression of the nucleus pulposus"
"An L4/L5 IV disc herniation would compress the L5 nerve root"
"Kyphosis is an exaggeration of the thoracic::region? curvature of the spine"
"Lordosis is an exaggeration of the lumbar::region? curvature of the spine"
"What are 2 common causes of kyphosis? Osteoporosis, Disk Degeneration"
"What are 3 common causes of lordosis? Pregnancy, Spondylolisthesis, Potbelly"
"What are 3 common causes of scoliosis? Poliomyelitis, Leg-Length Discrepancy, Hip Disease"
"Scoliosis is a complex lateral deviation of the spine"
"The axillary nerve and the posterior humeral circumflex artery may both be damaged by a fracture to the surgical neck of the humerus"
"The radial nerve and the deep brachial artery (deep artery of the arm) artery may both be damaged by a fracture to the midshaft of the humerus"
"The median nerve and the brachial artery may both be damaged by a fracture to the supracondylar region of the humerus"
"The ulnar nerve may be damaged by a fracture to the medial epicondyle of the humerus"
"What is the most common forearm fracture in adults? Transverse distal fracture of the radius"
"What are the 2 most common transverse distal radius fractures? Smith's fracture and Colles' fracture"
"Smith's fracture occurs from a force to the dorsal aspect of a flexed::extended/flexed wrist"
"Smith's fracture causes anterior::anterior/posterior displacement of the radius fragment"
"Colles' fracture results from a forced extension::extension/flexion of the hand"
"Colles' fracture causes posterior::anterior/posterior displacement of the radius fragment"
"The ulnar styloid is often broken off in a Colles'::Colles'/Smith's fracture"
"The \dinner fork\\" deformity is classically seen in a Colles' fracture\""
"Scaphoid fracture occurs as a result of a FOOSH"
"In a scaphoid fracture, pain occurs primarily on the lateral side of the wrist especially during wrist extension::movement and abduction::movement"
"A scaphoid fracture may take 2-3 weeks::time? to show up on X-ray"
"Scaphoid fractures cause deep tenderness in what location? Anatomical snuffbox"
"In a scaphoid fracture, the proximal::distal/proximal fragment may undergo avascular necrosis::pathology because blood supply is interrupted"
"Boxer's fracture are fractures to what structure? Necks of the metacarpals"
"The necks of the 2nd and 3rd metacarpals are typically fractured in professional::professional/unskilled fighters"
"The necks of the 4th and 5th metacarpals are typically fractured in unskilled::professional/unskilled fighters"
"The most likely direction of shoulder dislocation is inferiorly because that is the only direction not supported by rotator cuff muscles"
"What are the 4 rotator cuff muscles? Supraspinatus, Infraspinatus, Teres minor, Subscapularis (SITS)"
"Abduction of the upper extremity from 0 to 15 degrees is done by the supraspinatus muscle (innervated by the suprascpular nerve)"
"Abduction of the upper extremity from 15 to 110 degrees is done by the deltoid muscle (innervated by the axillary nerve)"
"Abduction of the upper extremity from 90 to 180 degrees is done by what 2 muscles? Trapezius, Serratus Anterior"
"What innervates the trapezius muscle? CN XI"
"What innervates the serratus anterior muscle? Long thoracic nerve"
"Subacromial bursitis is often due to calcific supraspinatus tendinitis"
"Subacromial bursitis pain is worsened with what action? Abduction of the arm"
"Medial::Lateral/Medial epicondylitis is also called golfer's elbow"
"Lateral::Lateral/Medial epicondylitis is also called tennis elbow"
"Medial::Lateral/Medial epicondylitis is inflammation of the common flexor::extensor/flexor tendon"
"Lateral::Lateral/Medial epicondylitis is inflammation of the common extensor::extensor/flexor tendon"
"Pain in lateral epicondylitis radiates down the posterior aspect of the forearm"
"Pain in lateral epicondylitis is often felt when opening a door::action or lifting a glass::action"
"Scapular anastomoses bypass blockade of the subclavian or axillary artery"
"The scapular anastomoses connects the thyrocervical branch of the subclavian artery to the subscapular branch of the axillary artery"
"What are the 4 arterial connections of the scapular anastomoses? Transvese cervical Suprascapular Subscapular Circumflex scapular"
"What are the contents of the cubital fossa::space? from medial to lateral? Median nerve, Brachial artery, Biceps brachii tendon (mnemonic: Man Brakes (his) Bike)"
"What are the veins in the cubital fossa from medial to lateral? Basilic, Median Cubital, Cephalic"
"The median cubital vein joins the cephalic and basilic veins"
"The site of venipuncture is usually the median cubital vein"
"Dislocation of the lunate bone may cause Carpal Tunnel Syndrome"
"The median nerve is the most sensitive structure in the carpal tunnel"
"Carpal Tunnel Syndrome presents with pins and needles or numbness to the lateral::lateral/medial 3.5::# digits"
"Carpal Tunnel Syndrome presents with ape hand deformity"
"Carpal Tunnel Syndrome presents with normal palm sensation"
"The distal interphalangeal joint is controlled by the flexor digitorum profundus"
"The proximal interphalangeal joint is controlled by the flexor digitorum superficialis"
"Upper brachial palsy involves damage to the C5 and C6 roots"
"Upper brachial palsy usually results from excessive increase in the angle between the neck and the shoulder"
"What spinal levels are affected by Erb-Duchenne palsy? C5, C6"
"What nerves are lesioned in Erb-Duchenne palsy? axillary, suprascapular, musculocutaneous"
"Erb-Duchenne palsy classically preesents with a \waiter's tip\\" hand\""
"Features of Erb-Duchenne palsy: Ad::Ab/Adducted shoulder Medially::Medially/Laterally rotated arm Extended::Flexed/Extended elbow Loss of sensation in the lateral aspect of the upper limb"
"What spinal levels are affected by Klumpke palsy? C8, T1"
"What nerves are lesioned in Klumpke palsy? Ulnar and Median"
"Klumpke palsy may occur when the upper limb is suddenly pulled superiorly::direction?"
"Klumpke::Erb/Klumpke palsy may cause Horner syndrome"
"Klumpke palsy causes both \claw\\" hand and \\"ape\\" hand\""
"Klumpke palsy causes loss of sensation in the medial::lateral/medial 1.5::# digits"
"Injury to the musculocutaneous nerve usually occurs from a lesion of the lateral cord"
"Injury to the musculocutaneous nerve causes weakness in flexion::action of the elbow and supination::action of the forearm"
"Injury to the musculocutaneous nerve causes anesthesia over the lateral aspect of the forearm"
"Transcervical fracture of the femoral head may injure the medial circumflex femoral artery, causing avascular necrosis"
"The \unhappy triad\\" is caused by a lateral forced to the planted leg\""
"The unhappy tried involves injury to ACL, MCL, Medial Meniscus::3"
"The LCL connects the lateral epicodyle of the femur::bone and the head of the fibula::bone"
"The LCL limits extension::action and adduction::action of the leg"
"What are 2 tests to check for ACL injury? Anterior drawer sign, Lachman test"
"Which test checks for PCL injury? Posterior drawer sign"
"The prepatellar bursa is the space between the skin and patella"
"The suprapatellar bursa is the space between the femur and quadricepts"
"The supra::pre/suprapatellar bursa is the space for intra-articular injections"
"The patellar reflex tests the femoral nerve (roots L2-L4)"
"The most common ankle sprain is an inversion injury of the plantarflexed foot"
"The lateral (anterior talofibular) ligament is the most commonly injured ankle ligament"
"In severe ankle sprains, the lateral malleolus of the fibula may be fractured"
"Pott's fracture is a forced eversion of the foot"
"Pott's fracture can result in avulsion of the medial malleolus of the tibia, as well as fibular fracture"
"Forced inversion can result in avulsion of the lateral malleolus of the tibia"
"The Achilles (ankle jerk) reflex tests spinal roots S1 and S2 of the tibial nerve"
"Inflammation/Spasm of the piriformis muscle may cause pain similar to that caused by sciatica"
"What is the action of the piriformis muscle? Supination of the hip joint"
"Injury to the sciatic nerve causes weakened hip extension::action and knee flexion::action"
"Injury to the sciatic nerve causes lack of foot dorsiflexion and plantar::dorsi-/plantar-flexion"
"Injury to the sciatic nerve causes \flail\\" foot\""
"What are 3 common causes of sciatic nerve injury? Improperly placed gluteal injections, posterior hip dislocation, herniated IV disc"
"The superior gluteal nerve roots are L4-S1 The inferior gluteal nerve roots are L5-S2"
"Both the superior and inferior gluteal nerves may be injured from posterior hip dislocation or complications of surgery"
"What muscle(s) are weakened in a superior gluteal nerve injury? tensor fasciae latae, gluteus medius, gluteus minimus"
"What muscle(s) are weakened in an inferior gluteal nerve injury? gluteus maximus"
"Inferior gluteal nerve injury causes difficulty in what 2 actions?  Climbing stairs Standing up from a seated position"
"The gluteus maximus performs hip extension::flexion/extension"
"Superior gluteal nerve injury results in loss of thigh abduction::action"
"Trendelenburg sign is a classic finding in patients with a Superior Gluteal nerve injury"
"With Trendelenberg sign, the affected::unaffected/affected hip is raised"
"With Trendelenberg sign, the unaffected::unaffected/affected hip is lowered"
"What are the 3 hamstring muscles? Biceps Femoris, Semitendinosis, Semimembranosus"
"What innervates the hamstring muscles? Tibial Nerve (except short head of biceps)"
"What are the 2 actions of the hamstring muscles? Extension of the hip, Flexion of the knee"
"The femoral sheath is an extension of the transversalis and iliacus fascia"
"What are the 3 components of the femoral sheath (from lateral to medial) Femoral Artery, Femoral Vein, Femoral Canal"
"What are the 3 components of the femoral triangle (from lateral to medial) Femoral Nerve, Femoral Artery, Femoral Vein"
"A femoral hernia passes through the femoral ring into the femoral canal to form a swelling in the upper thigh inferior::direction and lateral::direction to the pubic tubercle"
"A femoral hernia may protrude through the saphenous hiatus into the superficial fascia"
"Femoral hernias are more common in which gender? Females"
"What artery may be damaged in femoral hernia repair? Obturator artery"
"Damage to the Calcaneal (Achilles) tendon disables the triceps surae muscle, inhibiting plantarflexion::action"
"Which muscles comprise the triceps surae? Soleus, Plantaris, 2 heads of gastrocnemius"
"Tibial nerve injury causes weakend plantarflexion and inversion of the foot"
"Fibular neck fracture damages the commmon peroneal nerve"
"Common peroneal nerve injury causes weakness in all muscles of the anterior and lateral compartments of the leg"
"Common peroneal nerve injury causes weakend dorsiflexion and eversion of the foot"
"How does breast cancer cause dimpling of the skin? Malignancy attaches and shortens Cooper's ligaments"
"The lymph from the lateral breast drains to axillary lymph nodes"
"The lymph from the medial breast drains to parasternal lymph nodes, or to the opposite breast"
"During a radial mastectomy, the long thoracic nerve may be lesioned, which presents with a \winged scapula\\"\""
"Besides the long thoracic nerve, the intercostobrachial nerve may be damaged during mastectomy, resulting in numbness of the medial arm"
"Mastitis occurs most frequently during the time of breastfeeding"
"The diaphragm is innervated by the phrenic nerve (roots C3-C5)"
"Diaphragm hemiparalysis results in the injured side moving superiorly during inspiration instead of inferiorly"
"80-90% of blunt diaphragmatic ruptures result from motor vehicle crashes"
"The majority of blunt diaphragmatic ruptures occur on the left side at the posterolateral aspect"
"Left atrial enlargement is usually secondary to mitral valve failure and may cause hoarseness and dysphagia due to comrpression of the esophagus"
"What forms the right border of the cardiac shadow on CXR? SVC, Right atrium"
"What forms the left border of the cardiac shadow on CXR? Aortic arch, Pulmonary trunk, Left auricle, Left ventricle"
"Which heart valve is ascultated at blue? Pulmonic"
"Which heart valve is ascultated at red? Aortic"
"Which heart valve is ascultated at green? Tricuspid"
"Which heart valve is ascultated at purple? Mitral"
"A heart murmur is heard downstream from the valve"
"The nodal branch of the RCA supplies the SA and AV node::2"
"The marginal branch of the RCA supplies the right ventricle"
"The circumflex branch of the LCA supplies the left atrium and ventricle::2"
"The LAD supplies what 4 regions of the heart?  1) Anterior heart wall 2) Anterior 2/3 of IV septum 3) Bundle of His 4) Apex of heart"
"What coronary artery supplies the AV bundle and moderator band? LCA"
"Aspiration of foreign bodies is most likely to enter the right::left/right primary bronchus and pass into the middle or lower bronchi"
"The right lung has 10 bronchopulmonary segments"
"How many bronchopulmonary segments are in each division of the right lung? Superior lobe: 3 Middle lobe: 2 Inferior lobe: 5"
"How many bronchopulmonary segments are in each division of the left lung? Superior lobe: 4 Inferior lobe: 5"
"The left lung has 9 bronchopulmonary segments"
"CXR of pneumonia produces areas of opacity and enlargement of mediastinal lymph nodes"
"Bronchogenic Carcinoma has early metastasis to thoracic lymph nodes"
"Lung cancer may involve a Pancoast tumor at the apex of the lung, which can cause Horner syndrome and/or thoracic outlet obstruction"
"To listen to breath sounds of the superior lobe of the right lung, place the stethoscope above the 4th rib"
"To listen to breath sounds of the superior lobe of the left lung, place the stethoscope above the 6th rib"
"To listen to breath sounds of the middle lobe of the right lung, place the stethoscope between ribs 4 and 6"
"To listen to breath sounds of the inferior lobes of the left and right lung, the stethoscope is placed on the posterior chest wall"
"In an open pneumothorax, the mediastinum shifts toward the opposite side during inspiration"
"In an open pneumothorax, the mediastinum shifts back to the midline during expiration"
"The parietal pleura receives somatic sensory innervation"
"The visceral pleura receives autonomic sensory innervation"
"What are the divisions of the parietal pleura of the torso? Costal, Mediastinal, Diaphragmatic"
"The coastal parietal pleura receives innervation from intercostal nerves"
"The mediastinal parietal pleura receives innervation from phrenic nerves"
"The diaphragmatic parietal pleura receives innervation from phrenic nerves over the domes"
"The diaphragmatic parietal pleura receives innervation from lower 6 intercostal nerves around the periphery"
"The liver and gallbladder are in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen"
"The stomach and spleen are in the left upper quadrant of the abdomen"
"The descending and sigmoid colon are in the left lower quadrant of the abdomen"
"The cecum and appendix are in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen"
"Pain from the foregut refers to the epigastric region"
"Pain from the midgut refers to the umbilical region"
"Pain from the hindgut refers to the hypogastric region"
"The transveralis fascia is the first structure crossed by any abdominal hernia"
"Indirect inguinal hernias are most common in which gender? Males"
"Direct inguinal hernias are more common in which gender? Males"
"Indirect inguinal hernias are more common in children::adults/children"
"Direct inguinal hernias are more common in older adults::adults/children"
"Indirect inguinal hernias are the most common type of abdominal hernia"
"Indirect inguinal hernias pass through the deep inguinal ring, then the inguinal canal, then exit through the superficial inguinal ring before descinding into the scrotum "
"Indirect inguinal hernias are located lateral::lateral/medial to the inferior epigastric vessels"
"Most indirect inguinal hernias are on what side? Right::Left/Right/Bilateral"
"Why are indirect inguinal hernias more common on the right side? The right processus vaginalis obliterates after the left, so the right testis descend later in life"
"Direct inguinal hernias descend protrude through the inguinal (Hesselbach's) triangle, and then through the superficial inguinal ring"
"Which type of inguinal hernia can descend into the scrotum? Only indirect::Direct/Indirect/Both"
"Most direct inguinal hernias are on what side? Bilateral::Left/Right/Bilateral"
"The hepatogastric and hepatoduodenal ligaments make up the lesser omentum"
"What are the contents in the lesser omentum? Right/Left Gastric vessels, Portal triad"
"What are the components of the portal triad? Bile duct, Portal vein, Proper hepatic artery"
"The borders of the epiploic (winslow's) foramen are: Anterior: hepatoduodenal legament (portal triad) Posterior: IVC Superior: Caudate lobe of liver Inferior: 1st part of duodenum"
"The rectouterine pouch is also known as the pouch of Douglas"
"The pouch of Douglas is located between the rectum and uterus"
"A pelvic abscess usually forms in the rectouterine pouch"
"The vesicouterine pouch is located between the uterus and the bladder"
"Culdocentesis is aspiration of fluid from the rectouterine (Douglas) pouch"
"Culdocentesis is performed by needle puncture through posterior vaginal fornix"
"Because the rectouterine (Douglas) pouch is the lowest::location? portion of the female peritoneal cavity, it can collect inflammatory fluid"
"The foregut spans the esophagus to the proximal duodenum"
"The midgut spans the distal duodenum to the proximal 2/3 of the transverse colon"
"The hindgut spans the distal 1/3 of the transverse colon to the anal canal above the pectinate line"
"The arterial supply of the foregut is from the celiac artery"
"The arterial supply of the midgut is from the superior mesenteric artery"
"The arterial supply of the hindgut is from the inferior mesenteric artery"
"The parasympathetic innervation of the foregut is from the vagus nerve"
"The parasympathetic innervation of the midgut is from the vagus nerve"
"The parasympathetic innervation of the hindgut is from the pelvic splanchnic nerves (S2-S4)"
"The sympathetic innervation of the foregut is from the: Preganglionics: greater splanchnic nerves (T5-T9) Postganglionics: celiac ganglion"
"The sympathetic innervation of the midgut is from the: Preganglionics: lesser splanchnic nerves (T10-T11) Postganglionics: superior mesenteric ganglion"
"The sympathetic innervation of the hindgut is from the: Preganglionics: lumbar splanchnic nerves (L1-L2) Postganglionics: inferior mesenteric ganglion"
"The sensory information of the foregut goes to the dorsal root ganglion of spinal levels T5-T9"
"The sensory information of the midgut goes to the dorsal root ganglion of spinal levels T10-T11"
"The sensory information of the hindgut goes to the dorsal root ganglion of spinal levels L1-L2"
"Posterior gastric ulcers may erode into the pancreas, causing referred pain to the back"
"Posterior gastric ulcers may erode into the splenic artery"
"Congenital diaphragmatic hernia results from a posterolateral::where? defect in the diaphragm"
"Congenital diaphragmatic hernia has a high mortality rate due to associated lung hypoplasia"
"A sliding hiatal hernia occurs when the cardia::region of the stomach herniates through the esophageal hiatus::space of the diaphragm"
"A sliding hiatal hernial can damage the vagal trunks, resulting in hyposecretion of gastric juice"
"At what vertebral level is the herniation of a sliding hiatal hernia? T10 (this is the level of the esophageal hiatus) "
"Meckel's diverticulum results from a persistent vitelline duct"
"Meckel's diverticulum is associated with the rule of 2's Occurs in 2% of patients Located 2 feet before the ileocecal junction About 2 inches long"
"What 3 types of tissue can be contained in a Meckel's diverticulum? Gastric, Pancreatic, Endometrial"
"Meckel's diverticulum may cause diverticulitis, which mimicks the symptoms of acute appendicitis"
"What are the 3 structural features of the large intestine? Taeniae coli, Haustra, Omental appendices"
"The taeniae coli of the large intestine meet together at the base of the appendix::organ"
"In appendicitis, pain is first localized where? The umbilicus (T10)"
"In appendicitis, late pain is located where? McBurney's point"
"McBurney point is found 1/3 of the distance between the ASIS and Umbilicus"
"Early::Early/Late pain in appendicitis is vague and diffuse"
"Late::Early/Late pain in appendicitis is sharp and specific"
"Early::Early/Late pain in appendicitis is termed visceral::somatic/visceral pain"
"Late::Early/Late pain in appendicitis is termed somatic::somatic/visceral pain"
"McBurney's point is where the base of the appendix is located"
"Volvulus occurs when the intestine rotates around its mesentery"
"Hirschsprung's Disease results from a failure of neural crest cells to migrate to the colon, causing it to be aganglionic (no postganglionic parasympathetic neurons)"
"Hirschsprung's Disease is commonly found in children with what chromosomal abnormality? Down Syndrome"
"Those with Hirschsprung's Disease are said to have a megacolon"
"The aganglionic colonic sections in Hirschsprung's Disease have inadequate motility, causing failure to pass a meconium stool within 1-2 days after birth"
"What is the treatment of Hirschsprung's Disease? Removal of the aganglionic portion of the colon"
"The celiac trunk branches off the abdominal aorta at what vertebral level? T12"
"The superior mesenteric artery branches off the abdominal aorta at what vertebral level? L1"
"The inferior mesenteric artery branches off the abdominal aorta at what vertebral level? L3"
"The renal arteries branch off the abdominal aorta at what vertebral level? L2"
"The the terminal branches of the abdominal aorta are the common iliac arteries, which branch off at the L4 vertebral level"
"After the celiac trunk branches off the abdominal aorta, it passes over the superior border of the pancreas before dividing into its 3 branches"
"What are the 3 branches of the celiac trunk? 1) Left gastric artery 2) Common hepatic artery 3) Splenic artery"
"The left gastric artery is susceptible to ulcers of the lesser curvature::region? of the stomach"
"The esophageal artery is the first branch off the left gastric artery"
"Gastric branches of the left gastric artery supply the left side of the lesser curvature::region of the stomach and make anastomoses with the right gastric artery"
"Where does the common hepatic artery divide into its 2 branches? The superior surface of the 1st part of the duodenum"
"What are the 2 branches of the common hepatic artery? 1) Proper hepatic artery 2) Gastroduodenal artery"
"The first branch of the proper hepatic artery is the right gastric artery"
"The proper hepatic artery ascends within the hepatoduodenal ligament of the lesser omentum to reach the porta hepatis, where it divides into the right and left hepatic arteries"
"The gallbladder is supplied by the cystic artery, which is a branch off the right hepatic artery"
"The right gastric artery supplies the right side of what region of the stomach? Lesser curvature"
"What artery is susceptible to erosion of a penetrating ulcer in the first part of the duodenum? Gastroduodenal artery"
"What are the 2 branches of the gastroduodenal artery? 1) Right gastroepiploic artery 2) Superior pancreaticoduodenal artery"
"The right gastroepiploic artery supplies what region of the stomach? Right side of the greater curvature"
"The right gastroepiploic artery anastomoses with what other artery? Left gastroepiploic"
"With ligation of the hepatic artery, collateral circulation of the liver can be established through which arteries?  Left and Right gastric arteries Left and Right gastroepiploic arteries"
"The right hepatic artery may be mistakenly ligated during cholecystectomy::procedure because it can be found in the triangle of Calot::region with the cystic artery"
"What may happen if the right hepatic artery is accidentally ligated during cholecystectomy? Right lobe hepatic necrosis"
"The splenic artery courses along the upper border of the pancreas"
"The splenic artery is susceptible to erosion of a penetrating ulcer of the posterior wall of the stomach into the lesser sac"
"The splenic vein runs behind the pancreas"
"The splenic artery::artery/vein runs a more tortuous course along the pancreas"
"The splenic vein::artery/vein runs a more straight course along the pancreas"
"The splenic artery is retroperitoneal until it reaches the tail of the pancreas, where it enters the splenorenal ligament to enter the hilum of the spleen"
"What are the 4 main branches of the splenic artery? 1) Branches to the spleen 2) Branches supplying most of the pancreas (not head) 3) Left gastroepiploic artery 4) Short gastric arteries"
"The fundus::region of the stomach is supplied by short gastric arteries"
"What are the 6 main branches of the superior mesenteric artery? 1) Inferior pancreaticoduodenal 2) Jejunal branches 3) Ileal branches 4) Ileocolic artery 5) Right colic artery 6) Middle colic artery"
"The appendicular artery is a branch of the ileocolic artery"
"What are the 3 main branches of the inferior mesenteric artery? 1) Left colic artery 2) Sigmoid arteries 3) Superior rectal artery"
"Mesenteric ischemia usually involves which region of the GI system? Small intestine"
"Risk for mesenteric ischemia increases if you are a smoker or have a high cholesterol level"
"Atherosclerosis::Pathology slows down blood flow through arteries, and thus is a frequent cause of chronic::acute/chronic mesenteric ischemia"
"AAA (abdominal aortic aneurysm) is a localized dilatation of the aorta"
"AAA typically happens just above the bifurcation of the aorta at the L4 vertebral level (crossed by 3rd::# part of the duodenum)"
"Pulsations of a large AAA can be detected to the left::left/right of the the midline at the umbilical region"
"Rupture of an AAA causes severe pain in the abdomen or back with a 90% mortality rate"
"Surgeons can repair an AAA by opening it and inserting a prosthetic graft"
"Bile is initially secreted by the liver cells and is stored/concentrated in the gallbladder"
"Bile is delivered from the gallbladder ultimately to what location in the GI tract? Duodenum"
"Bile initially leaves the gallbladder through the cystic duct, which joins the common hepatic duct to form the common bile duct"
"The common bile duct descends in the hepatoduodenal ligament, then passes posterior to the 1st part of the duodenum"
"After passing the duodenum, the common bile duct penetrates the head of the pancreas, where it joins the main pancreatic duct and forms the sphincter of Oddi (hepatopancreatic ampulla)"
"The sphincter of Oddi drains into the 2nd part of the duodenum at the major duodenal papilla"
"The distal end of the sphincter of Oddi is the narrowest part of the biliary passage, thus it is a common site for impaction of gallstones"
"Gallstones in most locations of the biliary passage cause yellow::color eyes (sclerel icterus) and jaundice::skin finding"
"Gallstones lodged in the cystic duct do not cause jaundice, and instead cause biliary colic (intense pain in the gallbladder)"
"The fundus of the gallbladder is in contact with the transverse colon, thus gallstones that erode through the posterior wall of the gallbladder may enter the colon"
"Gallstones in the body of the gallbladder may ulcerate through the posterior wall into the duodenum::GI region"
"Gallstones that ulcerate into the duodenum::colon/duodenum are more likely to cause intestinal obstruction due to being held up at the ilocecal valve"
"Sensory innervation of the liver is done by the right phrenic nerve, and pain may radiate to the right shoulder"
"Portal hypertension commonly causes congestive enlargement of the spleen::organ"
"A portacaval shunt is a surgical treatment for portal hypertension"
"A portacaval shunt connects the splenic vein with the renal vein"
"Creating a portacaval shunt requires removal of the spleen::organ, which requires anastomosis of the splenic vein to the left renal vein"
"What are the 3 sites of portocaval anastomoses? 1) Esophageal veins 2) Thoracoepigastric veins 3) Rectal veins"
"Esophageal anastomosis occur between the left gastric vein and the azygous vein"
"In portal hypertension, umbilical anastomosis may enlarge causing caput Medussae"
"Umbilical anastomosis occur between the paraumbilical vein and the superior/inferior epigastric veins"
"Rectal anastomosis occur between the superior rectal vein and the inferior rectal vein veins"
"In portal hypertension, rectal anastomosis may enlarge causing internal hemorrhoids"
"The superior rectal vein drains into the portal vein"
"The inferior rectal vein drains into the IVC system"
"The head of the pancreas includes the uncinate process which is crossed by the superior mesenteric vessels"
"Cancer at the head of the pancreas often compresses the bile duct, causing obstructive jaundice"
"The jaundice caused by cancer of the pancreatic head is associated with neither pain or fever::pain/fever"
"The splenic vein joins with the superior mesenteric vein to form the portal vein at the neck of the pancreas"
"The tail of the pancreas is the only part that is intraperitoneal (the rest is retropreitoneal)"
"The tail of the pancreas may be accidentally removed during splenectomy::procedure, causing diabetes"
"The accessory pancreatic duct drains into the minor duodenal papilla (which is about 2 cm proximal to the major duodenal papilla)"
"Annular pancreas occurs when the ventral and dorsal pancreatic buds form a ring around the duodenum, causing obstruction and polyhydramnios"
"The spleen is deep to ribs 9, 10, 11, thus fracture of these ribs may lacerate the spleen"
"The gastrosplenic ligament connects the spleen and the greater curvature of the stomach"
"The gastrosplenic ligament contains the short gastric vessels and the left gastroepiploic vessels"
"The splenorenal ligament connects the spleen with the left kidney"
"The splenorenal ligament contains the splenic vessels and the tail of the pancreas"
"The kidneys extend from the vertebral levels of T12 to L3"
"The right kidney is about 2-3 cm lower::higher/lower than the left one"
"The ureters lie on the psoas major muscle"
"The renal (Gerota) fascia encloses both the kidney and the adrenal glands, however they are separated by a thin septum"
"The renal fascia must be incised to perform any surgical operation on the kidney"
"The two most common types of kidney stones are calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate"
"If kidney stones grow too large before they are passed, they may obstruct the ureter"
"Staghorn calculi::Type of kidney stone develop in the pelvicaliceal system of the kidney"
"Staghorn calculi are composed of magnesium ammonium phosphate::3 and are formed when the urine pH is high::high/low"
"The right renal vein is much shorter::shorter/longer than the left renal vein"
"The left renal vein is joined by the left adrenal vein and left gonadal vein before empyting in the IVC"
"The left renal vein crosses anterior to the aorta, just inferior of the origin of the SMA"
"Varicoceles are engorgement of the pampiniform plexus"
"Varicoceles are describe as a wormlike scrotal mass"
"Varicocele formation is most commonly on the left::left/right side"
"Varicocele is commonly caused by blockage of the spermatic vein or by kidney cancer"
"The right spermatic vein drains into the IVC, and the left spermatic vein drains into the left renal vein"
"Venous drainage from the rectum above the pectinate line is through the superior rectal vein into the portal system"
"Venous drainage from the rectum below the pectinate line is through the inferior rectal vein into the IVC"
"External hemorrhoids are dilated tributaries of the inferior rectal veins"
"External hemorrhoids are painful"
"Internal hemorrhoids are painless"
"Internal hemorrhoids are dilated tributaries of the superior rectal veins"
"Pregnancy can cause both internal and external (but internal is more common)::internal/external hemorrhoids"
"What are the contents of the deep perineal pouch in males? Sphincter urethrae muscle, Deep transverse perineal muscle, Bulbourethral (Cowper's) glands"
"The deep perineal pouch is formed by the fasciae and muscle of the urogenital diaphragm"
"What muscles are in the superficial perineal pouch? 1) Ischiocavernosus 2) Bulbospongiosus 3) Superficial transverse perineal"
"Cystocele is a herniation of the bladder"
"Cystocele may be caused by increased intrabdominal pressure and damage to the pelvic floor"
"In males, the ureter is crossed superiorly by the ductus deferens near the bladder"
"In females, the ureter is crossed superiorly and anteriorly by the uterine artery at the base of the broad ligament"
"The ureter can be damaged in a hysterectomy::procedure because due to its proximity to the uterine artery"
"Pelvic parasympathetic innervation is done through nerve roots from levels S2-S4"
"Pelvic sympathetic innervation is done through nerve roots from levels T12-L2"
"Pelvic sympathetic::sympathetic/parasympathetic innervation involves the inferior hypogastric plexus"
"Pelvic parasympathetic::sympathetic/parasympathetic innervation involves the intramural plexus"
"Pelvic sensory/pain innervation is carried to dorsal root ganglions at levels S2-S4, and then joins parasympathetic::sympathetic/parasympathetic nerves"
"Parasympathetic and motor nerve fibers facilitate bladder emptying"
"Sympathetic nerve fibers inhibit bladder emptying"
"Parasympathetic nerve fibers effect what 2 bladder muscles?  Stimulates detrusor Relaxes internal uretheral sphincter"
"Sympathetic nerve fibers effect what 2 bladder muscles?  Inhibits detrusor Contracts internal uretheral sphincter"
"Motor nerve fibers effect which bladder muscle? Releaxes external urethral sphincter"
"Relaxation of the external urethral sphincter is voluntary"
"Relaxation of the internal urethral sphincter is involuntary"
"Paracentesis of the bladder is done by inserting where? Just above the pubic symphysis"
"Postate tumors tend to metastasize to the vertebrae and brain because the prostatic venous plexus has numerous connections with the vertebral venous plexus via sacral veins"
"BPH (prostate adenoma) usually involves the median lobe"
"BPH is a common cause of urethral obstruction, leading to nocturia, dysuria, urgency::3 urinary symptoms"
"The prostate is examined for enlargement/tumors by DRE (digital rectal examination)"
"A prostatectomy may be performed through a suprapubic or perineal incision, or transurethrally"
"Prostatectomy may damage nerves in the capsule of the prostate, which may cause impotence and/or urinary incontinence"
"The TURP procedure is the gold standard for prostatectomy"
"The prostatic urethra is the most wide::narrow/wide"
"The membranous urethra is the most narrow::narrow/wide"
"The prostatic urethra has a spindle shape"
"The seminal vesicles and ejaculator duct empty into the prostatic urethra"
"The membranous urethra is the shortest part"
"The membranous urethra is surrounded by the external urethral sphincter"
"The membranous urethra passes through the urogenital diaphragm to enter the bulb of the penis"
"Bulbourethral glands lie posterolateral::direction? to the membranous urethra"
"The spongy urethra is the final part which terminates at the tip of the glans penis"
"The spongy urethra has which two dilations? Bulbar Fossa, Navicular Fossa"
"The bulbar fossa is the more proximal dilation of the spongy urethra"
"The navicular fossa is the more distal dilation of the spongy urethra"
"The internal urethral sphincter is made of smooth muscle"
"The external urethral sphincter is made of skeletal muscle"
"The external urethral sphincter is innervated by the pudendal nerve"
"A hydrocele/hematocele occurs between the parietal and visceral layers of what structure? Tunica vaginalis"
"Will a hydrocele transilluminate? Yes!"
"Will a hematocele transilluminate? No!"
"Will a scrotal tumor transilluminate? No!"
"Will a herniation to the scrotum transilluminate? No!"
"Transillumination of a hydrocele produces a red::color glow"
"Cryptorchidism occurs when the testes fail to descend into the scrotum"
"The testes normally descend into the scrotum within 3 months::time? after birth"
"In cryptorchidism, the undescended testes may be found in the abdominal cavity or in the inguinal canal"
"In cryptorchidism, spermatogenesis::process is arrested leading to infertility if bilateral"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the testes? Lumbar (para-aortic) lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the epididymis? Lumbar (para-aortic) lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the scrotum? superficial inguinal lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the skin of the penis? superficial inguinal lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the glans penis? deep inguinal lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the body/root of the penis? internal iliac lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the prostate gland? internal iliac lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the bladder? internal iliac lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the anal canal ABOVE the pectinate line? internal iliac lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the anal canal BELOW the pectinate line? superficial inguinal lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the ovaries? Lumbar (para-aortic) lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the fallopian (uterine) tubes? Lumbar (para-aortic) lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the uterus (lateral angle)? superficial inguinal lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the uterus (fundus and upper body)? Lumbar (para-aortic) lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the uterus (cervix)? external AND internal iliac lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the vagina (superior to hymen)? external AND internal iliac lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the vagina (inferior to hymen)? superficial inguinal lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of all external femal genitalia (besides glans clitoris)? superficial inguinal lymph nodes"
"What is the lymphatic drainage of the glans clitoris? deep inguinal lymph nodes"
"The uterus is almost exclusively supplied by the uterine arteries"
"The uterine artery is a branch off the internal iliac artery"
"The uterine artery crosses the pelvic floor in the transverse cervical ligament on the base of the broad ligament"
"The uterine artery has branches that have anastomoses with the vaginal and ovarian arteries"
"What are the 4 parts of the fallopian tube? (From medial to lateral) Uterine part, Isthmus, Ampulla, Infundibulum"
"What part of the fallopian tube is the most narrow? Isthmus"
"What part of the fallopian tube is the usual site of implantation? Ampulla"
"What part of the fallopian tube first receives the oocyte at ovulation? Infundibulum"
"The infundibulum part of the fallopian tube is funnel-shaped and fringed with fimbriae"
"Hysterosalpingography is an imaging technique to view the uterine cavity and fallopian tubes"
"Here's all the foramina of the base of the skull, examine if you want, suspend if you want! :)"
"Cranial Nerve I exits the skull through the cribriform plate"
"Cranial Nerve II exits the skull through the optic canal"
"Cranial Nerves III, IV, V1, VI exit the skull through the superior orbital fissue"
"Cranial Nerve V2 exits the skull through the foramen rotundum"
"Cranial Nerve V3 exits the skull through the foramen ovale"
"Cranial Nerves VII and VIII exit the skull through the internal auditory meatus"
"Cranial Nerves IX, X, and XI exit the skull through the jugular foramen"
"Cranial Nerve XII exits the skull through the hypoglossal canal"
"Fracture of the cribiform plate of the ethmoid bone presents with anosmia, periorbital bruising (\raccoon eyes\\")"
"The coronal suture of the skull lies between the frontal bone and the parietal bone"
"The saggital suture of the skull lies between the two parietal bones"
"The squamous suture of the skull lies between the parietal bone and the temporal bone"
"The lambdoid suture of the skull lies between the parietal bone and the occipital bone"
"The bregma of the skull is the intersection of the coronal and saggital sutures"
"Scaphocephaly is premature close of the sagittal suture"
"Oxycephaly is premature close of the coronal suture"
"Plagiocephaly is a condition when there is premature closure of the coronal or lambdoid suture on only one side"
"The anterior frontanelle of the skull closes at the age of 9 to 18 months"
"The posterior frontanelle of the skull closes at the age of 2 months"
"Diminished size of the anterior frontanelle may indicate craniosynostosis or microcephaly"
"Persistence of the posterior frontanelle suggests underlying hydrocephalus or congenital hypothyroidism"
"Epidural hematoma occurs when the skull is fractured near the pterion, tearing the middle meningeal artery"
"Subdural hematoma occurs with damage to what vessel? Bridging veins"
"Epi::Epi/Subdural hematoma has a more rapid progression of symptoms"
"Epidural hematomas form a lens shaped pattern on imaging"
"Subdural hematomas form a crescent shaped pattern on imaging"
"What nerve(s)/vessel(s) are found on the lateral::lateral/medial walls of the cavernous sinus? CN III, IV, V1, V2"
"What nerve(s)/vessel(s) are found medially::laterally/medially in the cavernous sinus? CN VI, Internal carotid artery"
"The superior opthalmic vein communicates with the facial (angular) vein"
"The inferior opthalmic vein communicates with the pterygoid plexus of veins"
"Both the superior and inferior opthalmic veins pass through the superior orbital fissure and drain into the cavernous sinus"
"What layer of the scalp contains nerves and blood vessels? Connective tissue (dense superficial fascia)"
"Sensation of almost all the skin of the face is supplied by what cranial nerve? All the branches of CN V"
"The only skin of the face that doesnt have sensory innervation by CN V is the angle over the mandible, which is supplied by the great auricular nerve (roots C2-C3)"
"CN VII innervates all muscles of facial expression"
"CN VII is embryonically derived from the 2nd::# pharyngeal arch"
"CN VII provides taste sensation in the anterior 2/3 of the tongue through the chorda tympani"
"CN VII innervates what salivary glands? Submandibular, Sublingual"
"CN VII innervates the lacrimal glands"
"Bell's palsy::Condition? is idiopathic unilateral paralysis of CN VII"
"CN VII may be damaged during surgery of the parotid gland"
"The sphenoethmoidal recess receives the opening of the sphenoidal air sinus"
"The superior meatus receives the opening of the posterior ethmoidal air cells"
"The middle meatus receives the opening of the frontal and maxillary sinuses"
"The middle meatus receives the opening of the anterior and middle ethmoidal air cells"
"The inferior meatus receives the opening of the nasolacrimal duct"
"Epistaxis (nosebleed) most often occurs from the anterior nasal septum (Kiesselbach's area)"
"What 4 arteries converge at Kiesselbach's area, and thus contribute to epistaxis? 1) Sphenopalatine 2) Superior labial 3) Anterior ethmoidal 4) Greater palatine"
"Infection can reach the sinuses through their ostia from the nasal cavity or through the floor from the nasopharynx"
"The buccinator is the principal muscle of the cheek"
"All 4 muscles of mastication are innervated by CN V3"
"Which muscle(s) of mastication close the jaw? Temporalis, Masseter, Medial Pterygoid"
"Which muscle(s) of mastication open the jaw? Lateral Pterygoid"
"Which muscle(s) of mastication protrude the jaw? Lateral Pterygoid"
"Lesioning CN XII causes the tongue to deviate toward::away from/toward the side of the lesion due to unopposed action of the contralateral genioglossus muscle"
"What is the afferent limb of the gag reflex? CN IX"
"What is the efferent limb of the gag reflex? CN X"
"Injury to CN IX causes loss of both taste and touch::taste/touch in the posterior 1/3::region of the tongue"
"Palatine tonsillectomy may injury CN IX"
"Palatine tonsillectomy may injure the facial and/or internal carotid artery"
"The palatine tonsils receive their main blood supply from the tonsillar branch of the facial artery"
"The lymphatic drainage of the palatine tonsil is to the jugulodigastric lymph node"
"What is the body's most frequently enlarged lymph node? Jugulodigastric lymph node"
"What is the nerve supply to the palatine tonsils? CN IX and X"
"What parts of the face have lymph drainage to the submental lymph nodes? 1) Central part of upper and lower lips 2) Lower incisor teeth 3) Tip of the tongue Everything else is to the submandibular lymph nodes"
"What part of the tongue has lymph drainage to the submandibular lymph node? Anterior 2/3 (besides the tip)"
"A blow-out fracture of the orbital floor injures the inferior rectus muscle, infraorbital nerve, and infraorbital artery"
"The superior rectus muscle is innervated by CN III"
"The inferior rectus muscle is innervated by CN III"
"The medial rectus muscle is innervated by CN III"
"The lateral rectus muscle is innervated by CN VI"
"The superior oblique muscle is innervated by CN IV"
"The inferior oblique muscle is innervated by CN III"
"What is the action of the superior rectus muscle? Elevates + Adducts pupil"
"What is the action of the inferior rectus muscle? Depresses + Adducts pupil"
"What is the action of the inferior oblique muscle? Elevates + Abducts pupil"
"What is the action of the superior oblique muscle? Depresses + Abducts pupil"
"What is the action of the lateral rectus muscle? Abducts pupil"
"What is the action of the medial rectus muscle? Adducts pupil"
"What is the action of the levator palpebrae superioris muscle? Elevates upper eyelid"
"The levator palpebrae superioris is innervated by CN III"
"How would you clinically test the action of the medial rectus muscle? Ask the patient to look directly medially"
"How would you clinically test the action of the lateral rectus muscle? Ask the patient to look directly laterally"
"How would you clinically test the action of the superior rectus muscle? Ask the patient to look laterally, then superiorly"
"How would you clinically test the action of the inferior rectus muscle? Ask the patient to look laterally, then inferiorly"
"How would you clinically test the action of the superior oblique muscle? Ask the patient to look medially, then inferiorly"
"How would you clinically test the action of the inferior oblique muscle? Ask the patient to look medially, then superiorly"
"What are the 3 common manifestations of Oculomotor Nerve (CN III) palsy? Ptosis (eyelid drooping), Dilated Pupil (\Blown Out\\")"
"The characteristic sign of CN IV palsy is diplopia when looking down (e.g., going down stairs)::direction?"
"CN IV palsy can be compensated for by inclining the head anteriorly and laterally toward the side of the normal eye"
"The affected eye in CN IV palsy is stuck looking superio-laterally::direction?"
"In CN VI palsy, the affected eye is fully adducted due to unopposed action of the medial rectus muscle"
"The afferent limb of the corneal reflex is through CN V1, and the efferent limb of the corneal reflex is through CN VII"
"Which eye blinks in the corneal reflex? Both eyes!"
"The efferent limb of the corneal reflex acts on the orbicularis oculis muscle"
"Horner syndrome is commonly caused by a pancoast tumor or thyroid carcinoma"
"Horner syndrome is the the result of interruping ascending preganglionic sympathetic nerve fibers before they reach the superior cervical ganglion"
"What are 4 common signs of Horner Syndrome? Miosis, Ptosis, Anhydrosis, Vasodilation (causing redness and increased temperature of skin)"
"Otitis media primarily causes diminished hearing::sense"
"Otitis media may alter the sense of taste if the chorda tympani is involved"
"Otitis media may spread to the middle cranial fossa, causing meningitis"
"Otitis media may move through the floor, causing sigmoid sinus thrombosis"
"Because the close proximity of the chorda tympani, tympanic membrane perforation may also cause loss of taste over the anterior 2/3 of the tongue"
"Perforation of the tympanic membrane is a cause of conductive::conductive/sensorineural hearing loss"
"What are the 2 main hormones produced by the thyroid gland? Thyroid hormone, Calcitonin"
"What is the main hormone produced by the parathyroid gland? PTH (parathyroid hormone)"
"Calcitonin acts to reduce blood calcium levels"
"PTH acts to increase blood calcium levels"
"PTH mainly targets what 3 areas of the body? Skeleton, Kidneys, Intestines"
"The common carotid artery is located posterolateral::direction? to the thyroid gland"
"The parathyroid glands are located on the posterior aspect of the thyroid gland"
"Thyroglossal duct (median cervical) cysts usually present as a painless::ful/less midline::location? mass on the anterior aspect of the neck"
"Thyroglossal duct (median cervical) cysts do::do/do not move during swallowing"
"Branchial cleft cysts do not::do/do not move during swallowing"
"A persistent cervical sinus causes a branchial cleft cyst in the lateral aspect of the neck"
"Thyroglossal duct (median cervical) cysts are remnants of the thyroglossal canal"
"In 1-5% of people, a inferior thyroid gland is deep in the superior mediastium within the thymus (due to common embryonic origin)"
"The vestibular folds are also known as false vocal cords"
"The vocal folds are also known as true vocal cords"
"The rima vestibuli is the gap between the vestibular folds"
"The rima glottidis is the gap between the vocal folds (anteriorly) and vocal processes of the arytenoid cartilages (posteriorly)"
"The posterior cricoarytenoid is the only abductor::what does it do? of the vocal folds"
"The superior laryngeal nerve divides into internal and external laryngeal nerves"
"The internal laryngeal nerve supplies much of the larynx above::above/below the vocal folds"
"The external laryngeal nerve supplies the cricothyroid muscle"
"The recurrent laryngeal nerve supplies much of the larynx below::above/below the vocal folds"
"The recurrent laryngeal nerve ascends in the neck in a groove between the trachea and esophagus"
"The right recurrent laryngeal nerve hooks around the right subclavian artery::blood vessel"
"The left recurrent laryngeal nerve hooks around the arch of the aorta::blood vessel"
"A cricothyrotomy is an emergeny procedure that relieves an airway obstruction"
"In a cricothyrotomy, a needle inserted just below the thyroid cartilage, through the cricothyroid membrane"
"The retropharyngeal space is located between the buccopharyngeal fascia and prevertebral fascia"
"The carotid sheath derives from which embryologic layer? All 3!"
"The carotid sheath encloses what arteries/veins/nerves?  Common and internal carotid arteries Internal jugular vein Vagus nerve"
"The axillary sheath is derived from the prevertebral fascia"
"The axillary sheath encloses the axillary vessels and the brachial plexus"
"The interscalenus space is between the anterior and medial scalene muscles and contains the brachial plexus"
"What arteries/veins/nerves/lymph nodes are contained in the posterior triangle of the neck? Artery: Occipital artery Veins: External jugular and subclavian veins Nerves: CN XI (+ trunks of brachial plexus, branches of cervical plexus, phrenic nerve) Lymph Nodes: Superficial cervical lymph nodes"
"In the posterior triangle of the neck, the superficial cervical lymph nodes are along the external jugular vein"
"esophageal varices caused by anastamosing left gastric and azygous vein in lower part of esophagus"
"anorectal varices formed by anatstaomsis of superior rectal vein and middle/inferior rectal veins"
"Facial nerve implicated in Bell's Palsy when terminal branches accidentally nicked during parotid surgery"
"lesser omentum has hepatogastric and hepatoduodenal ligaments. Also contains portal triad, hepatic plexus, and local lymphatic structures. Collectively, these contents are contained in Gilsson's Capsule"
"Winslow's foramen aka Epiploic foramen connects greater and lesser sacs in the abdomen."
"Any movement (fracture, surgery, etc)) of the femoral head may cause tearing of the medial circumflex femoral artery which leads to avascular necrosis."
"Heberden's nodes are distal Bouchard's nodes are proximal"
"Although foreign objects are more likely to be aspirated into the right main bronchus, the distinction is less clear in children b/c of  kiddos have relatively similar bronchial angles:: give the general reason"
"Piriformis muscle overlies the  Sciatic nerve (so injury to that muscle produces sciatica)"
"Popliteal Fossa borders are the: semimembranosus biceps femoris gastrocnemius medial head gastrocnemius lateral head plantaris."
"Most superficial components of the Popliteal Fossa are the tibial and fibular nerves"
"Swelling in the popliteal fossa should make you think popliteal cyst // baker's cyst or aneurysm. Either way, watch for compression of the tibial nerve, which would cause plantar flexion weakness"
"Injury to the superior gluteal nerve causes contralateral hip side to fall downard (trendelenburg sign, due to weakness of the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus muscles)"
"abdominal aortic aneurysms are most likely to occur above the bifurcation::location, b/c of changes in elasticity and diameter."
"Waiter's Tip involves Axillary, Suprascapular, and Musculocutaneous nerve injuries"
"Most likely place in the peritoneal cavity to have abscesses is rectouterine pouch (AKA Douglas' pouch) since it's the lowest point."
"First structure penetrated by ANY abdominal hernia is the transversalis fascia"
"fibular neck fracture should make you think common peroneal nerve injury. Look for foot drop b/c of anterior and lateral leg muscle weakness"
"Mnemonic for pharyngeal pouches: M S 2 Problems are Vague (1=\M\\""
"The spleen is likely lacerated with a crushing injury to ribs 9 or 10"
"Varicoceles usually form on the left::L/R side b/c venous blood from the left has further to go (thus requiring more pressure to move out)."
"the cavernous sinus receives blood from the facial and superior opthalmic veins. Note: popping pimples in areas supplied by these veins can lead to infection!!"
"The danger zone extends from the base of the skull to the posterior mediastinum. This is posterior to the retropharyngeal space, and can be infected due to local spread from the parapharyngeal/retropharyngeal spaces."
"chorda tympani runs along posterior surface of the tympanic membrane."
"chorda tympani damage results in loss of taste to the tongue (anterior 2/3), as well as dysfunction of submandibular and sublingual glands."
"Most frequently enlarged lymph nodes in the cervical chain are the jugulodigastric, which drain the palatine tonsils."
"chorda timpani damage kills taste to the anterior 2/3 tongue glossopharyngeal nerve damage kills taste to the posterior 1/3 tongue"
"most common ways to damage the ulnar nerve are FOOSH or medial epicondyle injury."
"Hirschprung disease is megacolon b/c of absence of postganglionic parasympathetics. When you hear Hirschprung think Down Syndrome."
"Celiac Artery provides 3 retroperitoneal branches: Left Gastric artery Common Hepatic artery Splenic artery"
"posterior zone of the prostate is comprised of the peripheral and lateral lobes"
"How does valsalve affect blood return to the heart? less blood return"
"A positive inotropic agent drops the right atrial pressure because of inadequate filling time"
"Cryptorchidism decreases fertility because spermatogenesis is impaired due to increased temperature of testis"
"Why do B12 and B9 lead to increased risk for thrombosis? increased serum homocysteine"
"Preterm Premature Rupture of Membranes (PPROM) is a preterm baby with premature rupture of membranes without contractions"
"What is the estimated week of gestation if the measured fundal height is at the navel? 20 weeks"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Cellulitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Scabies"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Toxic epidermal necrolysis"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Molluscum contagiosum"
"What birth weight is considered macrosomia? > 4000 to 4500 grams (or 9 to 10 pounds)"
"Before which gestational age should betamethasone (BMZ) always be given to mothers admitted to labour & delivery? Before 36 weeks 6 days"
"What is the most common etiology of spontaneous abortion (SAB)? Fetal chromosomal abnormalities (~60%)"
"How does prior C-section and placenta previa change the risk of placenta accreta? Increase"
"Placenta accreta occurs when placental villi attach directly onto the myometrium"
"What are Braxton Hicks contractions? Uterine contractions w/o cervical changes"
"What is the classic triad of signs of placental separation (during delivery)? Cord lengthening Gushing of vaginal blood Uterine fundal rebound"
"What is the nitrazine test for rupture of membranes (ROM)? pH indication of amniotic fluid; alkaline amniotic fluid turns it blue"
"What are the three tests for rupture of membranes (ROM)? Vaginal pooling via speculum exam Nitrazine on vaginal fluid Ferning test on vaginal fluid"
"What are the \3 P's\\" for the causes of abnormal labor? Power (uterine contractions) Passenger (fetus) Passage (pelvis)\""
"What is the cause of late FHR decelerations? Uteroplacental insufficiency and insufficient fetal blood flow/oxygenation"
"What constitutes a reactive nonstress test (NST)? 2 FHR accelerations in 20 minutes"
"What is the contraindication for Prostaglandin F2alpha (hemabate) in postpartum hemorrhage? Asthma"
"What is the most common cause of abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB)? Anovulatory cycles"
"What is the most common cause of abnormal uterine bleeding in postmenopausal women? Atrophic vaginitis"
"What malignancy must be ruled out in all postmenopausal women with uterine bleeding? Endometrial carcinoma"
"What is the treatment for anovulatory bleeding? Medroxyprogesterone acetate (Provera) or OCPs"
"What procedure offers a definitive diagnosis for endometriosis? Diagnostic laparoscopy"
"Which antidiabetic is used to treat infertility in polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS)? Metformin"
"What class of drugs is known to prevent ovarian cancer? OCPs"
"How is ectopic pregnancy diagnosed? Quantitative β-hCG Ultrasound::Two diagnostic steps"
"What is the medical treatment for ectopic pregnancy? Methotrexate"
"What is the only IUD that can increase bleeding? Paraguard (copper IUD)"
"Which imaging study is most sensitive for pyloric stenosis? Ultrasound"
"What is the diagnosis in an infant with an omega-shaped epiglottis and collapse of the supraglottic structures during inspiration? It is improved by placing the infant in the prone position. Laryngomalacia MCC of chronic stridor in infants"
"Follicular conjunctivitis and pannus (neovascularization) formation in the cornea are seen with trachoma"
"What is the most important first step in management for patients with Somatic Symptom Disorder? Schedule regular monthly visits to establish a single physician as the primary caregiver"
"A young pt presents w/ cough, wheezing, and dyspnea. His PMHx is significant for allergic rhinitis, nasal polyps, and eczema. Physical exam reveals wheezing in the BL upper lobes and a prolonged expiratory phase. What is the most likely Dx? Asthma"
"What is the best diagnostic test for asthma? PFTs"
"Which antipsychotic medication occasionally causes hypothermia by disrupting thermoregulation and the body's shivering mechanism? Fluphenazine"
"What cause of infectious, nonbloody diarrhea (w/o WBC in the stool) is associated with camping/hiking and unfiltered fresh water? Giardia lamblia"
"What is the management for patellofemoral pain syndrome in the recovery phase? PT and strength training with cycling::2"
"The most likely atypical antipsychotic to cause tardive dyskinesia is risperidone, and the least likely is clozapine"
"What is the treatment for viral gastroenteritis? Rehydration (PO preferred, IV if not possible) Loperamide::2"
"ASCUS and HPV (+) -- what is best next step? Colposcopy"
"How many stools should a baby produce over 24 hours? 3-4 Wet diapers? 6"
"What hormone stimulates milk letdown? Oxytocin What is it stimulated by? Suckling"
"What is respiratory depression in pt on MgSO4 a sign of? Mag toxicity What should be done? Stop Mag, start Ca gluconate"
"Does cleavage of SNARE via tetanus toxin prevent release of excitatory or inhibitory neurotransmitters? Inhibitory (thus causing spastic paralysis)"
"Treatment for tetanus includes antitoxin +/- vaccine booster; may also give diazepam for muscle spasms and debride the wound"
":)"
":)"
":)"
":)"
":)"
":)"
":)"
"What do you call cheese by itself? Prov-ALONE"
"Why did the can crusher quit his job? It was SODA PRESSING"
"What do you call a fake noodle? An IMPASTA!"
"Good luck studying for your shelf or step 2 or whatever exam it may be! If you score well - congratulations! If your score isn't quite what you had hoped, congratulate yourself on how hard you worked and know that life will find a way to work itself out. Medical student and physician depression/suicide is a major epidemic that isn't talked about enough. If you think someone you know is feeling down, ask how they're doing! If you're feeling down, please don't be afraid to ask for help. I hope you have found these decks useful. May your medical career have many successes. With love, Zanki :')"
"The axillary nerve may be injured by a fracture of the surgical neck of the humerus"
"The median nerve may be injured by a supracondylar fracture of the humerus"
"The ulnar nerve may be injured by a fracture of the medial epicondyle of the humerus"
"The ulnar nerve may be injured by a fracture of the hook of hamate from a fall on an outstretched hand"
"Which lower limb nerve provides sensory innervation to the area between the 1st and 2nd toes? Deep peroneal nerve"
"Which lower limb nerve provides sensory innervation to the dorsum of the foot? Superficial peroneal nerve"
"What nerve provides sensory innervation to the anterior and lateral thigh? Lateral femoral cutaneous"
"What nerve provides sensory innervation to the medial thigh? Obturator nerve"
"What nerve provides sensory innervation to the anterior thigh and medial leg? Femoral"
"What nerve provides cutaneous innervation to the sole of the foot? Tibial"
"What movements are lost with tibial nerve lesion? inversion and plantar flexion"
"What nerve injury results in difficulty climbing stairs and rising from a seated position (loss of hip extension)? Inferior gluteal nerve injury"
"What is the next step for blunt abdominal trauma in a hemodynamically unstable patient with a positive FAST examination (e.g. free intraperitoneal fluid)? Exploratory laparotomy"
"What imaging modality is useful for hemodynamically stable patients with blunt abdominal trauma and a positive FAST exam? CT scan of the abdomen"
"Is bursitis characterized by pain with active or passive range of motion? Active ROM"
"What bacteria is typically responsible for acute prepatellar bursitis? Staphylococcus aureus"
"If gram stain and culture of bursal fluid in a patient with prepatellar bursitis is negative, what is the next step in management? NSAIDs and activity modification"
"If gram stain and culture of bursal fluid in a patient with prepatellar bursitis is positive, what is the next step in management? Drainage and systemic antibiotics"
"Is septic arthritis characterized by pain with active or passive range of motion? Both active and passive ROM"
"Which type of shock is characterized by decreased central venous pressure (CVP) and cardiac output? Hypovolemic shock"
"Positive pressure mechanical ventilation causes an acute increase::increase/decrease in intrathoracic pressure, which decreases RV preload by compressing the IVC"
"What are the most common peripheral artery aneurysms? popliteal (#1) and femoral (#2)"
"What is next step for blunt abdominal trauma with GI perforation identified on CT? Exploratory laparotomy"
"Blunt abdominal trauma may result in damage to the mesenteric blood supply, leading to subsequent necrosis and eventual GI perforation"
"What is a common complication of glucocorticoid use? Osteonecrosis (avascular necorsis)"
"Patients with scaphoid fractures should have their wrists immobilized and monitored with serial X-rays to rule out osteonecrosis"
"Fracture of which wrist bone is often complicated by osteonecrosis? Scaphoid"
"Fracture of which wrist bone is often complicated by median nerve compression? Lunate"
"The medial border of the \anatomic snuffbox\\" is bounded by the extensor pollicis longus\""
"The lateral border of the \anatomic snuffbox\\" is bounded by the extensor pollicis brevis and the abductor pollicis longus\""
"What is the next step for a ruptured ovarian cyst with hemoperitoneum in a hemodynamically unstable patient? Ex-lap/laparoscopy"
"Physical examination of a ruptured ovarian cyst shows unilateral lower quadrant tenderness +/- hemoperitoneum"
"Succinylcholine works by binding to post-synaptic ACh receptors, triggering an influx of Na+ and efflux of K+ (depolarization)"
"What type of neuromuscular blocking agent should be used in patients with upregulated post-synaptic ACh receptors (e.g. skeletal muscle trauma, burn injury, stroke)? Non-depolarizing agents (e.g. vecuronium, rocuronium)"
"What anesthetic is associated with neurotoxicity in patients with vitamin B12 deficiency? Nitrous oxide"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with umbilical hernia? African-American infants"
"Does gastroschisis typically require surgical intervention? Yes (surgical emergency)"
"Does omphalocele typically require surgical intervention? Yes (surgical emergency)"
"Gastroschisis is characterized by protrusion of bright red intestines to the right side of a normal umbilicus (direction)"
"What abdominal mass presents in newborns as a soft, moist, pink, pedunculated lesion after the umbilical cord has separated? Umbilical granuloma"
"What is the treatment of choice for umbilical granuloma? Silver nitrate"
"Which metatarsal is most commonly injured by stress fractures? 2nd metatarsal"
"Which metatarsal has an increased risk for non-union following a stress fracture, thus requiring more aggressive treatment? 5th metatarsal"
"What major artery must be examined for injury following a clavicular fracture? Subclavian artery"
"What nerve bundle must be examined for injury following a clavicular fracture? Brachial plexus"
"Are fractures of the middle-third of the clavicle typically treated operatively? No"
"Is post-operative ileus characterized by a clear transition point on abdominal X-ray? No"
"Is small-bowel obstruction characterized by a clear transition point on abdominal X-ray? Yes"
"What vital signs (BP, HR) are concerning for hemorrhage following blunt abdominal or thoracic trauma? Hypotension and/or tachycardia"
"What is the most sensitive test for diagnosis of MCL tear? MRI"
"What is the non-operative management for uncomplicated MCL tears? Analgesics and RICE (rest, ice, compression, elevation)"
"MCL tear is characterized by medial knee tenderness and valgus::valgus or varus laxity on physical exam"
"What is the likely cause of gastric outlet obstruction in a patient with a history of acid ingestion? Pyloric stricture"
"Sphincter of Oddi dysfunction produces recurrent, episodic pain in the right upper quadrant or epigastric region with elevations in AST/ALT/ALP"
"What is the gold standard for diagnosis of sphincter of Oddi dysfunction? Sphincter of Oddi manometry"
"What is the treatment of choice for sphincter of Oddi dysfunction? Sphincterotomy"
"What nerve is at risk for injury with supracondylar fracture of the humerus? Median nerve"
"What artery is at risk for injury with supracondylar fracture of the humerus? Brachial artery"
"What is a common early clinical feature of compartment syndrome? Paresthesia (pins/needles)"
"Which organs (2) are most commonly injured with blunt abdominal trauma? liver and spleen"
"What is the most likely diagnosis for a hard, immobile mass on the hard palate of a young individual? Torus palatinus (benign bony growth)"
"What is the best initial step in the management of a hemodynamically stable patient with hemoptysis and a high clinical suspicion for tuberculosis? Respiratory isolation"
"Diaphragmatic rupture is more common on the patient's left side"
"What imaging modality can confirm the diagnosis of diaphragmatic rupture in patients with suggestive X-ray findings? CT scan (chest, abdomen)"
"Reactivation of which virus is associated with nasopharyngeal carcinoma? EBV"
"Early spread of nasopharyngeal carcinoma to the cervical lymph nodes is common"
"Which region of the bladder may cause chemical peritonitis if ruptured by blunt trauma? Dome of the bladder"
"Extraperitoneal bladder injury is associated with pelvic fracture and manifests as localized pain and gross hematuria"
"How does PaCO2 change in patients with atelectasis? Decreased"
"Symptoms of atelectasis (e.g. dyspnea, tachypnea) typically manifest on post-operative day 2 and 3"
"Pre-operative smoking cessation should occur at least 8 week(s) prior to surgery"
"What breathing instrument is useful for preventing post-operative atelectasis? Incentive spirometer"
"Epidural hematoma occurs due to sphenoid bone trauma with laceration of the middle meningeal artery::vasculature"
"What is the first step in the management of a necrotizing surgical site infection? Surgical exploration and debridement"
"Necrotizing surgical site infections are usually poly::mono- or poly-microbial"
"What acid-base disturbance typically occurs with acute mesenteric ischemia? Metabolic acidosis (elevated lactate)"
"What is the most likely diagnosis given a patient with swollen, erythematous skin, pain out of proportion to physical exam, systemic signs such as hypotension/fever, and the CT findings below? Necrotizing fasciitis"
"Patients who develop ischemic colitis often have extensive underlying atherosclerotic disease"
"CT findings indicative of ischemic colitis include colonic wall thickening (edema) and fat stranding"
"What hip movement worsens the pain associated with a hip septic arthritis? Hip flexion::flexion or extension"
"What imaging modality is used for diagnosis of a psoas abscess? CT scan of abdomen/pelvis"
"How does preload (RA pressure or PCWP) change in hypovolemic shock? Decreased"
"How does cardiac index change in hypovolemic shock? Decreased"
"How does afterload (SVR) change in hypovolemic shock? Increased"
"How does preload (RA pressure or PCWP) change in cardiogenic shock? Increased"
"How does cardiac index change in cardiogenic shock? Decreased"
"How does afterload (SVR) change in cardiogenic shock? Increased"
"How does afterload (SVR) change in septic shock? Decreased"
"Which type of shock is characterized by increased mixed venous O2 saturation (MvO2)? Septic shock"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a perforated viscus? Urgent exploratory laparotomy"
"What is the fluid of choice to restore volume quickly in the management of septic shock? IV 0.9% saline (crystalloid)"
"What Staphylococcus species is typically the cause of delayed-onset (3-12 months) prosthetic joint infection? S. epidermidis"
"Which Staphylococcus species is typically the cause of acute-onset (< 3 months) prosthetic joint infection? S. aureus"
"What is the next step in management of a patient with diverticulitis complicated by an abscess < 3 cm? IV antibiotics and observation"
"The differential diagnosis for an anterior mediastinal mass includes the \4 Ts\\": Thyroid neoplasm Thymic neoplasm Teratoma (and other germ cell tumors) Terrible lymphoma\""
"Seminomatous germ cell tumors often present with normal AFP and normal β-HCG levels"
"Non-seminomatous germ cell tumors often present with elevated AFP and elevated β-HCG levels"
"What post-gastrectomy complication presents with GI and vasomotor symptoms? Dumping syndrome"
"What imaging modality should be used to confirm placement of a central venous catheter tip? Chest X-ray"
"What is the ideal placement for a central venous catheter tip? Lower superior vena cava"
"What is the first step in the management of cervical spinal trauma? Spine immobilization"
"What imaging modality is best for confirming a meniscal tear? MRI"
"What is the management for a young patient with persistent symptoms due to a meniscal tear? Surgery (after evaluation by MRI)"
"What is the management for older and/or mildly symptomatic patients with meniscal tears? Rest/activity modification"
"Which tibial pathology presents with a diffuse area of tenderness on palpation? Shin splints (medial tibial stress syndrome)::Shin splints/Stress fracture"
"Which tibial pathology, shin splints or stress fracture, presents with a point tenderness on palpation? Stress fracture"
"Which tibial pathology is more common in underweight individuals? Stress fracture::Shin splints/Stress fracture"
"Immediately after a severe burn, most infections are due to gram-positive organisms"
"After > 5 days following a severe burn, most infections are due to gram-negative organisms or fungi"
"Change in appearance of a burn wound or loss of a viable skin graft is often the earliest sign of wound infection"
"Aortoiliac occlusion (Leriche syndrome) is characterized by a triad of bilateral hip, thigh, and buttock claudication, impotence, and absent/diminished femoral pulses"
"What is the most common cause of primary hypoparathyroidism? Post-surgical"
"What is the most common non-surgical cause of primary hypoparathyroidism? Autoimmune"
"What is the underlying cause of hypocalcemia in a patient with hyperphosphatemia and normal renal function? Hypoparathyroidism"
"What is the initial screening test for blunt aortic trauma? Chest X-ray"
"What is the most sensitive finding indicative of blunt aortic trauma? Mediastinal widening"
"What is the next step in management of a patient with migratory abdominal pain, McBurney point tenderness, nausea/vomiting, fever, and leukocytosis? Laparoscopic appendectomy"
"Varicoceles are due to tortuous dilation of the pampiniform plexus of veins surrounding the spermatic cord and testis"
"Varicoceles increase in size with standing and Valsalva maneuvers"
"Initial hematuria is suggestive of urethral damage"
"Terminal hematuria is suggestive of bladder or prostatic damage"
"Total hematuria is suggestive of kidney or ureter damage"
"What imaging modality is used to confirm a rotator cuff tear? MRI"
"What is the most common location for anal fissures? Posterior midline"
"What three symptoms make up the Cushing's reflex/triad? hypertension, bradycardia, and respiratory depression"
"What nerve provides sensation to the anterior thigh and medial leg? Femoral nerve (saphenous branch)"
"What nerve provides sensation to the dorsum of the foot? Superficial peroneal (fibular) nerve"
"What nerve is responsible for foot eversion and dorsiflexion? Peroneal (fibular) nerve"
"What nerve provides sensation to the area between the 1st and 2nd toes? Deep peroneal (fibular) nerve"
"What nerve provides sensation to the sole of the foot? Tibial nerve"
"What preventive measures are useful for preventing post-operative acute bacterial parotitis? Adequate fluid hydration and oral hygiene"
"Does anterior cord syndrome result in loss of vibration and proprioception? No"
"Does anterior cord syndrome result in loss of pain and temperature? Yes"
"Anterior cord syndrome initially presents with bilateral flaccid::spastic or flaccid paralysis"
"What is the initial step in the management of an uncomplicated small-bowel obstruction? Conservative (bowel rest; nasogastric tube suction; IV fluids)"
"What imaging modality should be used to evaluate a suspected urethral injury (e.g. penile fracture)? Retrograde urethrogram (assesses the urethra with X-ray after injection of contrast)"
"Are penile fractures typically managed medically or surgically? Surgically"
"What is the initial treatment for prerenal acute kidney injury in patients with evidence of hypovolemia? IV fluid bolus"
"What imaging modality is used to determine the need for urgent surgical intervention in patients with ischemic colitis (e.g. extensive bowel damage, perforation)? CT scan"
"What is the next step in management for a hemodynamically stable patient with penetrating abdominal trauma, rebound tenderness and guarding? Exploratory laparotomy"
"What nerve is most commonly damaged by anterior shoulder dislocation? Axillary nerve"
"What nerve is most commonly damaged by humeral mid-shaft fractures? Radial nerve"
"What nerve is most commonly damaged during an axillary lymphadenectomy? Long thoracic nerve"
"Duodenal hematomas classically develop in pediatric patients 24 - 36 hours after an initial blunt abdominal trauma, causing epigastric pain and vomiting"
"Management of a duodenal hematoma typically involves gastric decompression (NG tube) +/- parenteral nutrition"
"If a patient develops a whistling noise during respiration following rhinoplasty, what is likely the diagnosis? Nasal septal perforation"
"When should older patients with hip fractures undergo definitive surgical correction? As soon as reasonably possible"
"What is the initial management for a small (< 2 cm), spontaneous pneumothorax? Observation and supplemental O2"
"What is the initial management for a large pneumothorax in a hemodynamically stable patient? Needle decompression"
"What is the diagnostic criteria for acute pancreatitis? (requires 2 out of 3) Acute epigastric pain radiating to the back Increase amylase/lipase >3x normal limit Abnormalities on imaging consistent with pancreatitis"
"What imaging modality is typically used to diagnose acute cholecystitis? Ultrasound"
"When should patients with uncomplicated biliary colic have a cholecystectomy? Electively"
"Patients who present with acute onset back pain, syncope, and profound hypotension should be evaluated for a presumptive diagnosis of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA)"
"Atelectasis commonly occurs post-operatively due to shallow::depth breathing and weak cough secondary to pain"
"Hyperventilation may be used to lower intracranial pressure by decreasing PaCO2, causing vasoconstriction"
"What rash in pictured in the image below? Stasis dermatitis (secondary to venous insufficiency)"
"Pancreatitis with a(n) ALT > 150 U/L is suggestive of gallstone pancreatitis"
"What surgical intervention, if any, is recommended for patients with gallstone pancreatitis? Cholecystectomy"
"How does hypocalcemia effect the corrected QT interval (QTc)? Prolonged QTc"
"In stable patients, packed RBC transfusion is indicated once the hemoglobin drops below 7 g/dL"
"Platelet counts > 50,000/mm3 provide adequate hemostasis"
"What is the preferred initial management for asymptomatic patients with a pancreatic pseudocyst? Observation (NPO)"
"What is the preferred initial management for symptomatic patients with a pancreatic pseudocyst (e.g. abdominal pain, vomiting)? Endoscopic drainage"
"What imaging modality is used for the definitive diagnosis of syringomyelia? MRI"
"What type of urethral injury (anterior or posterior) is typically caused by pelvic fractures in men? Posterior urethral injury"
"What imaging modality is used to diagnose urethral injury? Retrograde urethrogram"
"Signs of posterior urethral injury include blood at the urethral meatus and a high-riding prostate on DRE"
"What type of urethral injury is typically caused by straddle injuries in men? Anterior urethral injury::Anterior urethral injury/Posterior urethral injury"
"Is a Foley catheter recommended for patients with suspected urethral injury? No"
"Are most cases of urethral injury treated with immediate or delayed surgical repair? Delayed"
"What initial imaging modality is used to diagnose GI perforation? Upright X-ray of chest and abdomen"
"Which type of brain tumor typically appears as a well-circumscribed, calcified, extra-axial, dural-based mass in a female? Meningioma"
"Which type of brain tumor typically appears as multiple ring-enhancing lesions at the gray-white junction? Brain metastasis"
"What is the most common blood transfusion reaction? Febrile non-hemolytic reaction"
"Febrile non-hemolytic transfusion reaction typically occurs immediately after transfusion and is caused by cytokine release from residual plasma/leukocyte debris"
"What is the first test used to evaluate splenic injury in a hemodynamically stable and alert patient? Focused Assessment with Sonography for Trauma (FAST)"
"If a hemodynamically stable and alert patient with suspected splenic injury due to blunt abdominal trauma has a normal FAST exam despite high-risk features (e.g. guarding), what is the next step? CT scan of abdomen"
"What is the first test used to evaluate splenic injury in a hemodynamically stable patient with altered mental status? CT scan of abdomen"
"Any penetrating wound below the 4th intercostal space is considered to involve the abdomen"
"What is the next step in management for a hemodynamically unstable patient with penetrating trauma to the 6th intercostal space and an equivocal FAST exam? Exploratory laparotomy"
"Retropharyngeal abscess often presents with neck pain, odynophagia, and fever following penetrating trauma to the posterior pharynx (e.g. fish bone)"
"What diagnosis is suggested by the CT image below? Ruptured AAA"
"What disease often manifests in young males as a painful, fluctuant mass above the anus in the intergluteal region with associated mucoid/bloody discharge? Pilonidal disease"
"How does ejection fraction change with hypovolemic shock? Increased"
"Reperfusion of a limb following arterio-occlusive ischemia for longer than 4 - 6 hours can lead to edema with possible compartment syndrome"
"Compartment syndrome is characterized by pain out of proportion to injury, especially with passive::active/passive stretching"
"Burn victims with oropharyngeal inflammation/blistering or carboxyhemoglobin levels > 10% should be intubated::treatment to prevent upper airway obstruction by edema"
"Pancreatic cancer classically presents with constant and/or gnawing epigastric pain that is worse at night"
"How does baseline body temperature change in patients with cirrhosis? Decreased (hypothermic)"
"What does an abnormal Reitan trail test (timed connect-the-numbers test) indicate? Altered mental status"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with cirrhosis and ascites who presents with low-grade fever, diffuse abdominal discomfort, and altered mental status (AMS)? Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis"
"Ascitic fluid with a PMN count > 250/mm3 and positive peritoneal fluid culture confirm the diagnosis of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis"
"A serum-ascites albumin gradient (SAAG) > 1.1 g/dL indicates that the ascites is due to portal hypertension"
"What is the likely underlying etiology of ascites if the serum-ascites albumin gradient (SAAG) is > 1.1 g/dL? Portal hypertension"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on warfarin who complains of weakness and back pain with new-onset anemia (CT below)? Retroperitoneal hematoma"
"Which laboratory value, amylase or lipase, is more sensitive (and useful) for diagnosis of acute pancreatitis? Lipase"
"In addition to antibiotics, risk factors for C. difficile colitis include age > 65 and PPI use"
"Acute liver failure is defined as severe acute liver injury (AST/ALT > 1000) with hepatic encephalopathy and impaired synthetic function (INR > 1.5) in a patient without underlying liver disease (e.g. cirrhosis)"
"The most common causes of acute liver failure are drug toxicity and acute viral hepatitis"
"The symptoms of carcinoid syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \Be FDR\\": Be: Bronchospasm F: Flushing D: Diarrhea R: Right-sided heart disease\""
"The diagnosis of carcinoid syndrome can be confirmed by elevated 24-hour urinary 5-HIAA in most patients"
"Carcinoid tumors are typically not symptomatic until they've metastasized to the liver (i.e. carcinoid syndrome)"
"The presence of elevated fasting serum gastrin (> 1000 pg/mL) with normal gastric acid (pH < 4) suggests a diagnosis of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome"
"What inherited disorder should patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome be screened for? MEN1"
"Which trace mineral deficiency manifests as impaired taste, alopecia, and pustular skin rash? Zinc deficiency"
"What is the colonoscopy screening recommendation for patients with inflammatory bowel disease? Begin 8 years post-diagnosis; repeat q1-2y"
"What is the colonoscopy screening recommendation for patients with family history of CRC? Begin at age 40 or 10 years before age of first diagnosis in the relative; repeat every 3-5 years"
"What is the colonoscopy screening recommendation for patients with familial adenomatous polyposis? begin 10-12; q1y"
"What infectious disease should be considered in patients with regional pain and hyperesthesia/allodynia without evidence of disease in local internal organs? Herpes zoster (Shingles)"
"The Charcot triad for acute cholangitis consists of fever, jaundice, and RUQ pain"
"What CT or ultrasound finding is often found in patients with acute cholangitis? Common bile duct dilation"
"What imaging modality is preferred for the diagnosis of acalculous cholecystitis? Ultrasound"
"What vaccinations are especially important in patients with chronic HCV infection? HAV and HBV"
"Conjugated hyperbilirubinemia with predominantly elevated AST/ALT is suggestive of intrinsic liver disease"
"Conjugated hyperbilirubinemia with predominantly elevated alkaline phosphatase is suggestive of intra- or extra-hepatic cholestasis"
"Conjugated hyperbilirubinemia with normal AST/ALT and alkaline phosphatase is suggestive of inherited bilirubin metabolism disorders"
"PAS-positive material in the lamina propria of the small intestine is a classic biopsy finding of Whipple's disease"
"The symptoms of Whipple's disease may be remembered with the mnemonic \Whipped cream in a CAN\\": C: cardiac symptoms A: arthralgias N: neurologic symptoms\""
"What is the most common cause of gross lower GI bleeding in adults? Diverticulosis"
"What is the cause of hypotension in severe acute pancreatitis? Increased vascular permeability"
"What is the likely diagnosis for an adult with episodic, painless dark maroon-colored stool? Angiodysplasia"
"Which side of the colon (right or left) does angiodysplasia typically occur? Right"
"Angiodysplasia is more common in patients with advanced renal disease, aortic stenosis::valvular disease, and von Willebrand disease"
"Pharmaceutical treatment for Wilson disease includes zinc and copper chelators (e.g. D-penicillamine, trientine)"
"Which is more common, primary liver cancer or metastasis to the liver? Metastasis to the liver"
"What is the likely cause of a solitary liver lesion in a patient with iron deficiency anemia and positive fecal occult blood screen? Liver metastasis (from CRC)"
"What are first-line agents (2) used to lower NH3 levels in hepatic encephalopathy? Lactulose (1st line) and Rifaximin (2nd line)"
"What is the recommended management for variceal hemorrhage if there is no further bleeding after endoscopic therapy? Secondary prophylaxis (β-blocker) with repeat endoscopic band ligation 1-2 weeks later"
"Pseudo-achalasia describes a narrowing of the distal esophagus secondary to causes other than denervation"
"What test is used to differentiate between achalasia and pseudo-achalasia (e.g. malignancy)? Endoscopy"
"What pathological finding is found in the CT scan below (arrow)? Porcelain gallbladder"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of alcohol use and chronic, intermittent epigastric abdominal pain that is relieved by leaning forward? Chronic pancreatitis"
"Do normal levels of amylase/lipase exclude a diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis? No"
"The presence of pancreatic calcifications on CT imaging helps establish a diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease is characterized by non-continuous colonic involvement (skip lesions)? Crohn disease"
"Weight loss, jaundice, and a non-tender, distended gallbladder are consistent with tumors in the head of the pancreas"
"Do tumors in the body/tail of the pancreas typically present with jaundice? No"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with GERD who complains of difficulty swallowing solid foods and has symmetric, circumferential narrowing on barium swallow? Esophageal stricture"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with severe RUQ/shoulder pain that occurs after fatty meals and resolves within 6 hours? Biliary colic"
"What test is used to establish the diagnosis of diffuse esophageal spasm? Esophageal manometry"
"What imaging modality is preferred for detecting pancreatic head tumors (e.g. jaundiced patients)? Abdominal ultrasound"
"What imaging modality is preferred for detecting pancreatic tumors of the body/tail (e.g. non-jaundiced patients)? Abdominal CT scan"
"Pellagra is due to vitamin B3 (niacin) deficiency"
"The symptoms of pellagra can be remembered as the \3 D's\\": Dermatitis (hyperpigmented"
"What tuberculosis drug occasionally causes pellagra? Isoniazid"
"Acetaminophen toxicity results from overproduction of the toxic metabolite NAPQI, which leads to hepatic necrosis"
"What cutaneous findings (2) arise due to hyperestrinism in cirrhotic patients? palmar erythema and spider angiomas"
"What is the underlying cause of testicular atrophy and gynecomastia in patients with cirrhosis? Hyperestrinism"
"What is the underlying cause of esophageal/anorectal varices and caput medusae in patients with cirrhosis? Portal hypertension"
"What is the underlying cause of splenomegaly in patients with cirrhosis? Portal hypertension"
"What age should patients with average risk of colon cancer begin screening? 50 years"
"How often should patients with an average risk for colon cancer be screened if using fecal occult blood testing? Annually"
"How often should patients with an average risk for colon cancer be screened if using flexible sigmoidoscopy with fecal occult blood testing? sigmoidoscopy every 5 years with FOBT every 3 years"
"How often should patients with an average risk for colon cancer be screened if using colonoscopy? Every 10 years"
"lung cancer screening via low-dose chest CT is recommended for those between 55 to 80 years old who have a > 30-pack-year history and are current smokers/quit within the last 15 years"
"What is the likely diagnosis for a patient with atherosclerosis who complains of postprandial epigastric pain, food aversion, and weight loss? Chronic mesenteric ischemia"
"Lactose intolerance is characterized by low stool pH and high::low or high stool osmotic gap"
"Lactose intolerance is characterized by a(n) positive::positive or negative hydrogen breath test"
"Lactose intolerance is characterized by a(n) positive::positive or negative stool test for reducing substances"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease typically spares the rectum? Crohn disease"
"Pleural fluid analysis in Boerhaave syndrome is typically exudative with low pH and very high amylase (> 2,500 IU/L)"
"The diagnosis of esophageal perforation is confirmed with Gastrografin-contrast esophagram (below) or CT (if esophagram results are equivocal)"
"How do levels of gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) and ferritin typically change in alcoholic hepatitis? Increased"
"What is the likely underlying cause of peptic ulcer disease in a patient who has emigrated from a low-income country? H. pylori infection"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with acetaminophen toxicity that develops worsening acute liver failure despite N-acetylcysteine treatment? Refer to liver transplant center"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with obesity and diabetes who presents with hepatomegaly and mildly elevated LFTs in the absence of other causes for secondary hepatic fat accumulation? Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)"
"What AST:ALT ratio is typically seen in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)? < 1 AST:ALT"
"What is the underlying cause of megaloblastic, macrocytic anemia in an alcoholic with normal methylmalonic acid levels? Folate (B9) deficiency"
"What is the underlying cause of megaloblastic, macrocytic anemia in an alcoholic with elevated methylmalonic acid levels? Cobalamin (B12) deficiency"
"Megaloblastic anemia secondary to folate/cobalamin deficiency is characterized by a(n) low reticulocyte count"
"What test/procedure is used to exclude malignancy in patients diagnosed with achalasia? Endoscopy"
"Cholesterol emboli may result in skin complications, such as livedo reticularis (pictured below) and blue toe syndrome"
"Cholesterol emboli may result in GI complications, such as acute pancreatitis and mesenteric ischemia"
"What is the treatment for acute pancreatitis from uncorrectable causes (e.g. ischemia, atheroemboli)? Analgesics and IV fluids (supportive care)"
"Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is associated with peripheral insulin resistance"
"What is the most common cause of esophageal rupture? Endoscopy"
"Serum triglycerides generally must be > 1,000 mg/dL to cause pancreatitis"
"A(n) low::high/low stool osmotic gap is indicative of secretory::osmotic/secretory diarrhea"
"A(n) high::high/low stool osmotic gap is indicative of osmotic::osmotic/secretory diarrhea"
"Is diarrhea that is large-volume and occurs during fasting/sleeping characteristic of secretory or osmotic diarrhea? Secretory"
"The presence of IgA anti-endomysial and anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies are highly predictive of celiac disease"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who has symptoms of malabsorption with villous atrophy on small-bowel biopsy? Celiac disease"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged woman with fatigue, pruritus, hepatomegaly, and xanthelasmas? Primary biliary cholangitis"
"What musculoskeletal pathologies are associated with primary biliary cholangitis? (2) Osteoporosis Osteomalacia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an alcoholic who presents with epigastric pain and hematemesis following multiple episodes of vomiting (normal X-ray)? Mallory-Weiss tear"
"What test/imaging study is used to diagnose a Mallory-Weiss tear? Endoscopy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with sudden-onset odynophagia and retrosternal pain with discrete ulcers with normal-appearing surrounding mucosa in the mid-esophagus? Pill esophagitis"
"What class of antibiotics is associated with pill esophagitis? Tetracyclines"
"What vitamin/mineral supplements are associated with pill esophagitis? Potassium chloride and iron::2"
"What class of analgesics are associated with pill esophagitis? NSAIDs"
"What class of osteoporosis drugs are associated with pill esophagitis? Bisphosphonates"
"In addition to colon cancer, patients with Lynch syndrome also have increased risk for endometrial and ovarian cancer"
"What is the next step in management for an elderly patient with newly discovered iron deficiency anemia? Colonoscopy and endoscopy"
"Should patients with cirrhosis undergo a screening endoscopy for varices? Yes"
"All patients with cirrhosis should have a screening ultrasound every 6 months::duration +/- alpha-fetoprotein"
"Which diuretics are first-line therapy for cirrhotic ascites? Furosemide and spironolactone::2"
"What dietary habits increase the risk of diverticulosis complications (e.g. hemorrhage, diverticulitis)? Heavy meat consumption"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman with alternating constipation/diarrhea and chronic abdominal pain that is relieved after a bowel movement? Irritable bowel syndrome"
"What does colonoscopy reveal in a patient with irritable bowel syndrome? Normal colonic mucosa"
"The presence of an \abdominal succussion splash\\" suggests a diagnosis of gastric outlet obstruction\""
"What imaging test is used to evaluate bright red blood per rectum in a patient < 40 years old with no risk factors for CRC? Anoscopy"
"What imaging test is used to evaluate bright red blood per rectum in patients 40 - 49 years old with no risk factors for CRC? sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy"
"Hepatic hydrothorax is a possible complication of cirrhosis that results in transudative pleural effusions due to small defects in the diaphragm, especially on the right"
"Hepatopulmonary syndrome results from intrapulmonary vascular dilations in the setting of chronic liver disease"
"Patients with hepatopulmonary syndrome typically have increased dyspnea or O2 desaturation while upright (lying down or upright)"
"A positive urine bilirubin assay is typically indicative of a buildup of conjugated bilirubin"
"Rotor syndrome and Dubin-Johnson syndrome are characterized by elevated levels of conjugated bilirubin with normal LFTs and CBC"
"What is the next step for establishing the diagnosis in a patient with conjugated hyperbilirubinemia and predominantly elevated alkaline phosphatase? Abdominal imaging (US or CT)"
"What is the appropriate interpretation of the following serological test results: HBsAg: Negative Anti-HBs: Positive Anti-HBc: Positive Anti-HBe: Negative Resolved HBV infection"
"What is the appropriate interpretation of the following serological test results: HBsAg: Negative Anti-HBs: Positive Anti-HBc: Positive Anti-HBe: Positive Recovery phase HBV infection"
"What is the appropriate interpretation of the following serological test results: HBsAg: Negative Anti-HBs: Positive Anti-HBc: Negative Anti-HBe: Negative Vaccinated for HBV"
"What serologic marker for HBV remains positive throughout the window period? IgM anti-HBc"
"What is the appropriate interpretation of the following serological test results: HBsAg: Positive Anti-HBs: Negative IgG Anti-HBc: Positive Anti-HBe: Negative Chronic HBV infection"
"What serologic marker for HBV is indicative of infectivity? HBeAg"
"What is the standard triple therapy for the treatment of H. pylori infection? PPI, clarithromycin, and amoxicillin"
"Duodenal ulcers are characterized by pain that improves with eating (improves or worsens)"
"What characteristics (growth pattern, histology) of colonic adenomatous polyps suggest greater malignant potential? Sessile (non-pedunculated) growth and villous histology"
"What antibiotic should be started for patients with a first episode of non-fulminant C. difficile colitis? PO vancomycin or fidaxomicin"
"What combined antibiotic regimen can be used for C. difficile colitis in patients with multiple recurrences? Vancomycin followed by rifaximin"
"What is the initial management for a young patient with suspected GERD who has a bitter taste and substernal chest pain after meals? PPI trial"
"Which type of esophageal cancer is associated with smoking and heavy alcohol consumption? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Elevated titers of antinuclear antibodies and anti-smooth muscle antibodies suggests a diagnosis of autoimmune hepatitis"
"What is the first-line treatment for autoimmune hepatitis? Oral glucocorticoids"
"What is the most common site of colon cancer metastasis? Liver"
"What anti-seizure medication is a common cause of drug-induced pancreatitis? Valproic acid"
"What test can be used to evaluate for gastrinoma in patients with non-diagnostic serum gastrin levels (110-1000)? Secretin stimulation test"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a female with frequent, watery, nocturnal diarrhea and melanosis coli on colonoscopy? Factitious diarrhea (laxative abuse)"
"What is the underlying etiology of gallstones in patients on total parenteral nutrition? Gallbladder stasis"
"What serologic markers should be measured to diagnose acute HBV infection? HBsAg and IgM anti-HBc::2"
"How does the BUN:creatinine ratio change in patients with upper GI bleed? Increased"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recent travel history who develops foul-smelling stools, abdominal cramps, and bloating? Giardiasis"
"What is the preferred diagnostic test for giardiasis? Stool antigen assay (ELISA, immunofluorescence)"
"What is the first-line treatment for giardiasis? Metronidazole"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease may present with aphthous ulcers and perianal skin tags/fissures? Crohn disease"
"How do total levels of triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) change in patients with cirrhosis? Decreased"
"What is the most common type of lung cancer overall? Adenocarcinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with sudden-onset dyspnea and dysphagia and scattered urticaria? Upper airway obstruction (e.g. laryngeal edema)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a post-operative patient with hypotension, JVD, and new-onset right bundle branch block? Massive pulmonary embolism"
"Massive pulmonary embolism may result in obstructive shock"
"What anti-hypertensive medication is associated with dry cough? ACE inhibitors"
"The modified Wells criteria is used to assess pretest probability of acute pulmonary embolism"
"A modified Wells score > 4 suggests that pulmonary embolism is likely"
"What medications should be administered to patients with severe asthma exacerbation? inhaled short-acting β2 agonists, inhaled ipratropium, systemic corticosteroids"
"If a patient with airway obstruction has significant reversal of symptoms with an inhaled bronchodilator, they likely have asthma::asthma or COPD"
"The primary long-term intervention for persistent asthma is daily inhaled corticosteroids"
"The primary long-term intervention for COPD is a daily long-acting anticholinergic inhaler"
"Oxygenation, and thus PaO2, in mechanically ventilated patients may be improved by increasing the FiO2 or PEEP"
"What ventilator setting change is best to improve oxygenation in a patient with the following settings: FiO2: 70% PEEP: 5 mmHg VT: 400 mL RR: 24/min Increase PEEP"
"What test/imaging study should be ordered first to evaluate an older patient with a 30 pack-year smoking history and recurrent episodes of pneumonia in the same anatomic location? CT scan of chest"
"Which type of pleural effusion, exudative or transudative, is commonly caused by decreased plasma oncotic pressure or elevated hydrostatic pressure? Transudative"
"Which type of pleural effusion, exudative or transudative, is commonly caused by increased capillary permeability or disruption to lymphatic outflow? Exudative"
"Exudative pleural effusions are characterized by a(n) > 0.5 (high) pleural/serum protein ratio"
"Transudative pleural effusions are characterized by < 0.6 (low) pleural/serum LDH ratio"
"Exudative pleural effusions are characterized by > 0.6 (high) pleural/serum LDH ratio"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion, uncomplicated or complicated, is characterized by pH > 7.2? Uncomplicated"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion, uncomplicated or complicated, is characterized by pH < 7.2? Complicated"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion, uncomplicated or complicated, is characterized by glucose > 60 mg/dL? Uncomplicated"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion, uncomplicated or complicated, is characterized by glucose < 60 mg/dL? Complicated"
"What is the general treatment for uncomplicated parapneumonic effusion? Antibiotics"
"What is the general treatment for complicated parapneumonic effusion? Antibiotics and drainage (e.g. chest tube)"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion is characterized by low pH, low glucose, and positive gram stain & culture? Empyema"
"What asthma severity is characterized by SABA use ≤ 2 days a week with ≤ 2 nighttime awakenings a month? Intermittent"
"What is the recommended treatment regimen for patients with intermittent asthma? Short-acting β2-agonist as needed"
"What asthma severity is characterized by SABA use > 2 days a week (not daily) with 3-4 nighttime awakenings a month? Mild persistent"
"What is the recommended treatment regimen for patients with mild persistent asthma? daily low-dose inhaled corticosteroid and SABA as needed"
"What asthma severity is characterized by SABA use daily with >1 nighttime awakening a week (not nightly)? Moderate persistent"
"What is the recommended treatment regimen for patients with moderate persistent asthma? daily long-acting β2-agonist, daily low-dose ICS, SABA as needed"
"What paraneoplastic syndrome presents with euvolemic hyponatremia? SIADH"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with COPD who develops sudden-onset dyspnea and chest pain with unilaterally decreased breath sounds (no tracheal deviation)? Secondary spontaneous pneumothorax"
"The three most common causes of chronic cough are upper-airway cough syndrome (postnasal drip), asthma, and GERD"
"The diagnosis of upper-airway cough syndrome (postnasal drip) is confirmed by elimination of nasal discharge and cough with the use of first-generation H1 receptor antagonists (e.g. chlorpheniramine)"
"What is the most significant risk factor for tuberculosis in the U.S.? Emigration from an endemic area"
"Patients with COPD who have resting PaO2 < 55 mmHg::units or SaO2 < 88%::units are candidates for long-term home O2 treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recurrent episodes of bacterial infection, purulent sputum, hemoptysis, and digital clubbing? Bronchiectasis"
"What asthma medication may cause CNS stimulation, cardiac arrhythmia, and GI disturbances as possible side effects? Theophylline"
"The pathogenesis of bronchiectasis involves a(n) infectious insult with impaired bacterial clearance"
"What test/imaging study is the best diagnostic test for bronchiectasis? High-resolution CT (HRCT) scan of the chest"
"What is the underlying etiology for aspiration pneumonia in patients with impaired consciousness and/or advanced dementia? impaired swallowing and cough reflex"
"When using a ventilator, prolonged FiO2 levels > 60% are associated with oxygen toxicity"
"When using a ventilator, the goal is to keep SpO2 between 88 - 95%"
"When using a ventilator, the goal is to keep PaO2 between 55 - 80 mmHg"
"Mechanical ventilation in patients with ARDS should use low tidal volumes and high PEEP (low or high)"
"How does lung compliance change in patients with ARDS? Decreased"
"How does pulmonary arterial pressure change in patients with ARDS? Increased (pulmonary hypertension)"
"What is the likely diagnosis given the flow-volume loop below? Fixed upper airway obstruction (e.g. laryngeal edema)"
"The flow-volume loop shifts to the left in patients with obstructive::obstructive or restrictive lung disease"
"The flow-volume loop shifts to the right in patients with restrictive::obstructive or restrictive lung disease"
"What is the likely underlying etiology of hypoxemia in patient with respiratory acidosis and normal A-a gradient? Hypoventilation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with repeated episodes of fever, dyspnea, and cough after exposure to environmental antigens (e.g. bird droppings, molds)? Hypersensitivity pneumonitis"
"What is the best treatment for hypersensitivity pneumonitis? Avoidance of the responsible antigen"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with PMHx of Hodgkin lymphoma status-post chemotherapy/radiation who presents with cough, dyspnea, and chest pain (imaging below)? Secondary malignancy"
"What bacteria is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia? Streptococcus pneumoniae"
"What imaging modality is typically used to diagnose pneumonia? Chest X-ray"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on high-doses of β2 agonists (e.g. albuterol, epinephrine) who develops muscle weakness? Hypokalemia"
"An endotracheal tube that is advanced too far will preferentially enter into the right::left or right mainstem bronchus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a smoker with a chronic productive cough for multiple years without fever, weight loss, or dyspnea? Chronic bronchitis"
"Chronic bronchitis is defined as a chronic productive cough for > 3 months in 2 successive years"
"What is the underlying etiology of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease? aspirin-induced prostaglandin/leukotriene imbalance"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with anosmia, bronchospasm and nasal congestion following aspirin ingestion? Aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD)"
"What is the best initial step in management for a stabilized patient with likely PE (modified Wells criteria) who has no absolute contraindications to anticoagulation? Begin anticoagulation (e.g. IV heparin)"
"What is the best initial step in management for a stabilized patient with unlikely PE (modified Wells criteria) who has no absolute contraindications to anticoagulation? Obtain diagnostic test (e.g. D-dimer assay)"
"What is the best initial step in management for a stabilized patient with suspected PE who has absolute contraindications to anticoagulation? Obtain diagnostic test (e.g. CT angiography)"
"What is the next step in management for a smoker with progressive dyspnea, weight loss, and evidence of pleural effusion on CXR? Diagnostic thoracentesis"
"Patients with COPD have an increased work of breathing due to a(n) flattened diaphragm"
"What is the most common adverse effect associated with inhaled corticosteroids? Oropharyngeal candidiasis (oral thrush)"
"What is the first-line therapy for obesity hypoventilation syndrome? Nocturnal positive-pressure ventilation"
"Treatment of invasive aspergillosis often involves IV voriconazole and an echinocandin (e.g. caspofungin)"
"What pneumonia complication is characterized by frank pus or bacteria in the pleural space? Empyema"
"What is the next step in management for a solitary pulmonary nodule discovered on routine CXR in a patient with no previous imaging? CT scan of chest"
"What type of pleural effusion, transudative or exudative, is commonly seen with pulmonary embolism? Exudative (typically a small, bloody effusion)"
"How does the A - a gradient change in patients with pulmonary embolism? Increased (V/Q mismatch)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with previous TB infection who presents with months of weight loss, fatigue, and hemoptysis without night sweats, fever, or chest pain (imaging below)? Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis"
"What is the first-line treatment for patients with exercise-induced bronchoconstriction who exercise a few times per week? Short-acting β-agonists 10-20 minutes before exercise"
"What is the first-line treatment for patients with exercise-induced bronchoconstriction who exercise daily? Inhaled corticosteroids or anti-leukotriene agents 10-20 minutes before exercise"
"Consolidation of the lung results in increased tactile fremitus, and dullness to percussion (e.g. lobar pneumonia)"
"Pneumothorax and emphysema result in decreased breath sounds, decreased tactile fremitus, and hyperresonance to percussion"
"Goodpasture's disease is characterized by antibodies against glomerular and alveolar basement membranes"
"Renal biopsy showing linear IgG antibodies along the glomerular basement membrane is diagnostic for Goodpasture's disease"
"What is the best treatment to minimize the development of life-threatening complications in patients with anaphylaxis (e.g. hypotension, upper airway edema)? Intramuscular epinephrine 1:1000 (1 mg/mL)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who smokes and has coronary artery disease that presents with shortness of breath, bibasilar crackles, low CO2 and respiratory alkalosis? CHF exacerbation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a plumber with months of progressive dyspnea, bibasilar crackles, and clubbing? Asbestosis"
"What chest imaging finding is virtually pathognomonic for asbestosis? Pleural plaques"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with significant smoking history that presents with shortness of breath, bilateral wheezing, high CO2 and respiratory acidosis? COPD exacerbation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman with shortness of breath and the CXR findings below? Sarcoidosis"
"The underlying histopathologic lesion of sarcoidosis is non-caseating granulomas on tissue biopsy"
"What is the likely cause of leukocytosis with neutrophilic predominance in a patient being treated for asthma exacerbation? Glucocorticoid side effect"
"Obstructive lung disease is characterized by an FEV1/FVC ratio < 70% of predicted"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an immigrant with progressive dyspnea, orthopnea, palpitations, and an elevated left main bronchus on CXR? Rheumatic heart disease"
"The initial pathophysiology of a massive PE involves dilation and hypokinesis of the right ventricle with subsequent dysfunction"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman with exertional dyspnea and enlargement of the pulmonary arteries and right ventricle on CXR? Primary pulmonary hypertension"
"Features of a high-risk solitary pulmonary nodule include size > 2 cm, age > 60, and smoking cessation within the last 5 years (or current smoker)"
"Features of an intermediate-risk solitary pulmonary nodule include size 0.8 - 2 cm, age 40 - 60, and smoking cessation within the last 5 - 15 years (or current smoker)"
"Features of a low-risk solitary pulmonary nodule include size < 0.8 cm, age < 40, and smoking cessation for > 15 years (or never smoked)"
"What is the recommended management after chest CT for solitary pulmonary nodules with high malignancy risk? Surgical excision"
"What is the recommended management after chest CT for solitary pulmonary nodules < 8 mm with low to intermediate malignancy risk? Serial CT scan"
"What is the recommended management after chest CT for solitary pulmonary nodules > 8 mm with low to intermediate malignancy risk? FDG-PET showing high metabolic activity or biopsy"
"Bradycardia, hypoventilation, and decreased shivering are associated with moderate::severity hypothermia"
"Tachycardia, tachypnea, and increased shivering are associated with mild::severity hypothermia"
"Coma and cardiovascular collapse are associated with severe::severity hypothermia"
"What warming technique is best for patients with mild hypothermia? Passive external warming"
"What warming technique is best for patients with moderate hypothermia? Active external warming"
"What warming technique is best for patients with severe hypothermia? Active internal warming"
"In addition to rewarming techniques, hypotensive patients with hypothermia should receive warmed IV fluids"
"In mechanically ventilated patients, peak inspiratory pressure (PIP) is equal to the sum of resistive pressure and plateau pressure"
"In mechanically ventilated patients, an increased peak pressure with an unchanged plateau pressure suggests increased airway resistance"
"In mechanically ventilated patients, an increased peak pressure with an increased plateau pressure suggests decreased compliance"
"Ventilation, and thus PaCO2, in mechanically ventilated patients may be altered by changing either respiratory rate or tidal volume"
"In general, tidal volumes in mechanically ventilated patients should be about 6 ml/kg of ideal body weight"
"What ventilator setting change is best to improve respiratory alkalosis in a 70 kg patient with respiratory alkalosis with the following settings: FiO2: 40% PEEP: 5 mmHg VT: 450 mL RR: 18/min Decrease RR"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recurrent sinusitis, bronchiectasis, and dextrocardia? Kartagener syndrome (primary ciliary dyskinesia)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with upper respiratory symptoms, wheezing/crackles, and respiratory distress? Bronchiolitis"
"Infants age < 2 months with bronchiolitis are at high risk of developing apnea and/or respiratory failure"
"An infant with a fever, runny nose, and cough has the X-ray findings below. What does the arrow on the CXR point to? Thymus"
"What is the next step in management for a young patient who is taking PPIs and presents with chronic nocturnal cough without post-nasal drip, fever, dyspnea, weight loss, or response to H1 blockers? Pulmonary function tests"
"Chronic bronchitis-predominant COPD is characterized by a(n) normal DLCO"
"Emphysema-predominant COPD is characterized by a(n) low DLCO"
"The CURB-65 criteria helps guide treatment and treatment location for patients with community-acquired pneumonia: C: Confusion U: Urea > 20 mg/dL R: Respirations > 30/min B: Blood pressure (systolic < 90 or diastolic < 60 mmHg) 65: Age ≥ 65"
"What is the recommended empiric treatment for healthy patients with community-acquired pneumonia in an outpatient setting? macrolide or doxycycline"
"What is the recommended empiric treatment for patients with community-acquired pneumonia in an inpatient setting? Respiratory fluoroquinolone (e.g. moxifloxacin) or β-lactam and macrolide (IV)"
"What type of pleural effusion, transudative or exudative, is characterized by pH 7.40 - 7.55? Transudative"
"What type of pleural effusion, transudative or exudative, is characterized by pH 7.30 - 7.45? Exudative"
"What is the most important risk factor for neonatal respiratory distress syndrome? Prematurity"
"What maternal pathology is associated with increased risk for neonatal respiratory distress syndrome? Maternal diabetes"
"What is the recommended management for amniotic fluid embolism syndrome? Supportive (e.g. respiratory, hemodynamic support)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an unvaccinated child with high fever, drooling, and respiratory distress? Epiglottitis (H. influenza type b)"
"What is the initial treatment for a child with severe respiratory distress and signs of epiglottitis? Endotracheal intubation"
"Patients with hypovolemia often have decreased levels of urine sodium"
"What fungal infection typically occurs in patients exposed to soil contaminated by bird or bat droppings (e.g. caves)? Histoplasma capsulatum"
"How do the following pressures change with pulmonary embolism? RA pressure: increased Pulmonary artery pressure: increased LA wedge pressure: decreased"
"How does the A - a gradient change in patients with a decreased DLCO? Increased"
"Antibiotics should be given to patients with COPD exacerbation if they have an increase in ≥ 2 of the following symptoms: dyspnea, cough, or sputum production (cardinal symptoms)"
"What is the recommended management for solitary pulmonary nodules with stable size and appearance for over 2-3 years on imaging? Reassurance; no further testing required"
"The presence of digital clubbing in patients with COPD should prompt a search for occult malignancy"
"The most common causes of secondary digital clubbing are lung malignancy, cystic fibrosis, and right-to-left cardiac shunts"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese patient with daytime somnolence, morning headaches, and normal daytime CO2? Obstructive sleep apnea"
"What is the diagnostic test for obstructive sleep apnea? Nocturnal polysomnography"
"What is the next step in management for a young patient who presents with chronic nocturnal cough with a sensation of liquid dripping into the back of the throat? Oral first-generation H1 blocker"
"What type of V/Q mismatch may occur in patients with pneumonia? Right-to-left intrapulmonary shunt"
"Does hypoxemia secondary to intrapulmonary shunt correct with supplemental O2? No"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a euvolemic patient with low serum osmolality and high urine osmolality? SIADH"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a euvolemic patient with low serum osmolality and low urine osmolality (< 100)? Primary polydipsia"
"What ventilator setting change is best for a 65 kg patient with the following ABG and the ventilator settings: pH: 7.42 PaO2: 105 mmHg PaCO2: 37 mmHg FiO2: 80% PEEP: 7 mmHg VT: 380 mL RR: 14/min Decrease FiO2"
"Normal or high PaCO2 in a patient with an acute asthma exacerbation is suggestive of impending respiratory failure"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with acute COPD exacerbation with continued symptoms despite medical management? Non-invasive positive pressure ventilation"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with acute COPD exacerbation who fails to improve after non-invasive positive pressure ventilation? Tracheal intubation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with pneumonia that presents with continued symptoms despite adequate antibiotic coverage and loculation on CXR? Complicated parapneumonic effusion"
"What physiologic change helps compensate for chronic respiratory acidosis and hypercapnia in patients with COPD, sleep apnea, or obesity hypoventilation syndrome? Increased renal HCO3- retention"
"Which part of the mediastinum are thymomas usually found? Anterior mediastinum::anterior, middle, posterior"
"Which part of the mediastinum are neurogenic tumors usually found? Posterior mediastinum::anterior, middle, posterior"
"What is the most common malignancy diagnosed in patients exposed to asbestos? Bronchogenic carcinoma"
"What risk factor acts synergistically with asbestos to increase risk of lung cancer? Smoking"
"What is the pathophysiologic mechanism underlying worsening hypoxemia when a patient with lobar pneumonia lies on the affected side? Increased intrapulmonary shunting"
"How do RBC levels change in patients with obstructive sleep apnea and obesity hypoventilation syndrome? Increased (secondary erythrocytosis)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with chronic nasal congestion and dry cough without an identifiable trigger, eye symptoms, itching, or sneezing? Non-allergic rhinitis"
"What is the initial management for patients with non-allergic rhinitis? Intranasal antihistamine or glucocorticoids"
"Which type of lung cancer is associated with Cushing's syndrome (ectopic ACTH) and SIADH? Small cell carcinoma"
"What type of V/Q mismatch is worsened in COPD patients with O2-induced CO2 retention? Dead space"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young male with dyspnea on exertion accompanied by chronic lower back pain that is worse at night and improves with exercise? Ankylosing spondylitis"
"What is the underlying cause of low glucose in complicated parapneumonic effusions? High metabolic activity of leukocytes and/or bacteria"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with lethargy and asterixis with the laboratory findings below? BUN: 78 mg/dL Albumin: 3.8 g/dL AST: 38 U/L ALT: 44 U/L Creatine kinase: 32,000 U/L Uremic encephalopathy"
"Common causes of asterixis include hepatic encephalopathy, uremic encephalopathy, and hypercapnia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on RIPE therapy for tuberculosis who presents with painless \red\\" urine? Drug reaction\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with anasarca, pulmonary edema, hematuria, and proteinuria (1+)? Acute nephritic syndrome"
"Patients with acute nephritic syndrome develop edema due to glomerular damage, resulting in decreased GFR and increased Na+/H2O retention"
"What is the best test to screen for the initial stages of diabetic nephropathy? Urine test for microalbumin:creatinine ratio"
"What is the initial step in management for a post-operative patient with acute renal failure and oliguria (< 250 mL urine in 12 hours)? Bedside bladder scan to assess for urinary retention"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient with chronic renal failure, a palpable right flank mass, and an enlarged liver? Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD)"
"Drugs with anti-cholinergic properties can cause urinary retention by preventing detrusor muscle contraction and urinary sphincter relaxation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient taking a TCA that develops abdominal pain and suprapubic fullness? Urinary retention"
"What is the long-term treatment for severe hypercalcemia (> 14mg/dL or symptomatic)? bisphosphonates (e.g. zoledronic acid, pamidronate)"
"What formula is used to calculate the anion gap in patients with metabolic acidosis? AG = (Na+) - (HCO3- + Cl-)"
"Common causes of high anion gap (> 12 mEq/L) metabolic acidosis may be remembered with the mnemonic \MUDPILES\\": M: Methanol U: Uremia D: Diabetic ketoacidosis P: Propylene glycol I: Iron tablets or Isoniazid L: Lactic acidosis E: Ethylene glycol (oxalic acid accumulation) S: Salicylates (late; respiratory alkalosis early)\""
"Calcium gluconate or IV insulin with glucose is typically reserved for hyperkalemia in patients with ECG changes, K+ > 6.5 mEq, or rapidly rising K+"
"What classes of anti-hypertensive drugs are associated with hyperkalemia? ACE inhibitors and ARBs"
"What class of autonomic drugs are associated with hyperkalemia? Non-selective β-blockers"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an elevated serum Ca2+ and low urine Ca2+/Cr clearance ratio (< 0.01)? Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an elevated serum PTH/Ca2+ and normal urine Ca2+/Cr clearance ratio (> 0.02)? Primary hyperparathyroidism"
"What type of acid-base disturbance occurs with vomiting? hypokalemic, hypochloremic metabolic alkalosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile elderly male with BPH who experiences agitation and lower abdominal tenderness 2 days after surgery? Acute urinary retention"
"Diagnosis of acute urinary retention is confirmed by bladder ultrasound demonstrating > 300 mL of urine"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with lower extremity edema, 4+ proteinuria, and a kidney biopsy demonstrating dense deposits within the GBM? Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) type II"
"MPGN type II is associated with C3 nephritic factor, an IgG antibody that stabilizes C3 convertase"
"What is the treatment of choice for euvolemic hypernatremia? 5% dextrose (preferred) or 0.45% saline for free water supplementation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with cor pulmonale treated with loop diuretics that develops elevated creatinine and BUN? Prerenal acute kidney injury"
"What BUN:creatinine ratio is suggestive of prerenal acute kidney injury? > 20:1 BUN:creatinine"
"What acid base disturbance is present given the ABG below? pH: 7.53 PaCO2: 30 mmHg HCO3-: 22 mEq/L Respiratory alkalosis"
"What acid base disturbance is present given the ABG below? pH: 7.23 PaCO2: 38 mmHg HCO3-: 12 mEq/L Metabolic acidosis"
"What acid base disturbance is present given the ABG below? pH: 7.53 PaCO2: 40 mmHg HCO3-: 30 mEq/L Metabolic alkalosis"
"What acid base disturbance is present given the ABG below? pH: 7.29 PaCO2: 50 mmHg HCO3-: 24 mEq/L Respiratory acidosis"
"What is the most common form of drug-induced chronic renal failure? Analgesic nephropathy"
"What are the most common renal pathologies seen with analgesic nephropathy? (2) Papillary necrosis Chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis"
"How does urine pH change in patients with respiratory alkalosis? Increase (alkalinized urine)"
"What antibiotic is associated with hyperkalemia and elevated serum creatinine? Trimethoprim"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with tuberculosis who presents with hypotension, hyponatremia, hyperkalemia, hypercalcemia, hyperpigmentation, and eosinophilia? Primary adrenal insufficiency"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison disease)? Normal anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"What type of cast is characteristic of acute tubular necrosis? Muddy brown granular cast"
"What type of cast is characteristic of glomerulonephritis? RBC cast"
"What type of cast is characteristic of interstitial nephritis and pyelonephritis? WBC cast"
"What type of cast is characteristic of nephrotic syndrome? Fatty cast"
"What type of casts (2) are characteristic of chronic renal failure? broad and waxy casts"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly diabetic with non-anion gap metabolic acidosis, hyperkalemia, and mild renal insufficiency? Type 4 (hyperkalemic) renal tubular acidosis"
"What is the likely cause of acute kidney injury in patients receiving IV acyclovir? Renal tubular obstruction (crystal-induced AKI)"
"Risk of acute kidney injury secondary to IV acyclovir can be reduced by administering concurrent IV fluids"
"Patients age > 35 with gross hematuria should be evaluated for urological neoplasms with CT urogram (diagnostic imaging) and cystoscopy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female with hypokalemia, metabolic alkalosis, normotension, and low urine Cl-? Surreptitious vomiting"
"What is the current recommended screening regimen for bladder cancer? Not recommended, even in patients with significant smoking and family histories"
"Dietary recommendations for patients with renal calculi include increased fluid intake, decreased Na+ intake, and normal Ca2+ intake"
"Saline-responsive metabolic alkalosis is characterized by urine chloride < 20 mEq/L"
"Saline-resistant metabolic alkalosis is characterized by urine chloride > 20 mEq/L"
"What formula is used to calculate the serum osmolality? "
"What formula is used to calculate the osmolal gap? measured serum osmolality - calculated serum osmolality"
"High anion gap metabolic acidosis with a(n) high osmolal gap (> 10) is suggestive of ethylene glycol, methanol, or propylene glycol ingestion"
"High anion gap metabolic acidosis with hyperglycemia is suggestive of diabetic ketoacidosis"
"High anion gap metabolic acidosis in a patient with hypoperfusion is suggestive of lactic acidosis"
"What imaging modalities are preferred for detecting kidney stones? non-contrast CT scan (preferred) or ultrasound (if pregnant)::2"
"What classes of medications are used for pain management in patients with kidney stones? Narcotics and NSAIDs (preferred with normal renal function)::2"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with QRS widening and peaked T waves on ECG? Hyperkalemia"
"What treatment is used for cardiac membrane stabilization in patients with hyperkalemia? IV calcium infusion (e.g. calcium gluconate or calcium chloride)"
"What treatment provides the most rapid reduction in serum K+ in patients with hyperkalemia? IV insulin and glucose"
"What is the most common extrarenal manifestation of autosomal dominant PKD? Hepatic cysts"
"What neurological complication is associated with autosomal dominant PKD? Berry aneurysms"
"What is the likely underlying cause of refractory hypokalemia in an alcoholic patient? Hypomagnesemia"
"What effect does intracellular magnesium have on renal K+ secretion? Decreased K+ secretion"
"The pathologic hallmark of diabetic nephropathy is nodular glomerulosclerosis (with Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules), but diffuse glomerulosclerosis is more common"
"What class of anti-depressants is commonly associated with SIADH? SSRIs"
"What is the most common reason for higher incidence of UTIs in females than in males? Shorter urethral length in females"
"Winter's formula is use to calculate the expected PaCO2 in a patient with metabolic acidosis via the equation: PaCO2 = (1.5*HCO3-) and 8 +/- 2"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled diabetes that presents with overflow incontinence with a high post-void residual volume (> 50 mL)? Diabetic autonomic neuropathy"
"What is the treatment of choice for mild hypovolemic hypernatremia? 5% dextrose in 0.45% saline"
"What type of anti-histamine has anti-cholinergic activity? 1st generation H1-blockers"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a left-sided varicocele that fails to empty when the patient is lying down, as well as hematuria, fever, and thrombocytosis? Renal cell carcinoma"
"What acid-base disorders are associated with aspirin (salicylate) toxicity? Early: pure respiratory alkalosis Late (> 12 hours): mixed respiratory alkalosis and metabolic acidosis with normal pH"
"What screening procedure is useful for detecting cystinuria? Urinary cyanide nitroprusside test"
"Nephrotic syndrome is defined as proteinuria (> 3.5g / 24 hr) with hypoalbuminemia and edema"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is most common in African Americans and Hispanics? Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent infection who presents with fever and rash with WBC casts and eosinophiluria on urinalysis? Drug-induced interstitial nephritis"
"What class of antibiotics used to treat severe gram-negative infections is potentially nephrotoxic? Aminoglycosides"
"What complication may result from correcting hyponatremia too quickly? Osmotic demyelination syndrome (central pontine myelinolysis)"
"What complication may result from correcting hypernatremia too quickly? Cerebral edema"
"Correction of serum sodium (both hypo- and hyper-natremia) should not exceed a rate of 0.5 mEq/L/hr"
"What is the underlying cause of hypercoagulability in patients with nephrotic syndrome? Loss of antithrombin III in urine"
"How do lipid levels change in patients with nephrotic syndrome? Increased (hyperlipidemia)"
"Drugs that commonly cause acute interstitial nephritis may be remembered with the \5 P's\\": P: Pee (diuretics) P: Pain-free (NSAIDs) P: Penicillins"
"What is the most common cause of abnormal hemostasis in patients with chronic renal failure? Platelet dysfunction"
"What hematologic laboratory values are consistent with abnormal hemostasis due to chronic renal failure? PT: Normal PTT: Normal Platelet count: Normal Bleeding time: Prolonged"
"What is the likely underlying etiology of kidney disease with arteriosclerotic lesions of renal arterioles? Hypertension"
"What is the likely underlying etiology of kidney disease with GBM thickening, mesangial expansion, and glomerular sclerosis? Diabetic nephropathy"
"What is the earliest renal abnormality seen in diabetic nephropathy? Glomerular hyperfiltration"
"What is the most common cause of glomerulonephritis in adults? IgA nephropathy"
"What drug should be discontinued in an acutely ill patient with sepsis and acute renal failure taking low-dose aspirin, atorvastatin, metformin, and sitagliptin? Metformin"
"First-line treatment options for uncomplicated cystitis include TMP-SMX (3 days), nitrofurantoin (5 days), and fosfomycin (single dose)"
"Should patients with uncomplicated cystitis be treated before a urine culture is obtained? Yes"
"Should patients with complicated cystitis be treated before a urine culture is obtained? No"
"Complicated cystitis in otherwise stable, non-pregnant patients may be managed with oral fluoroquinolones"
"Should patients with pyelonephritis be treated before a urine culture is obtained? No"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female with orthostatic hypotension, hyponatremia, and hypokalemia with high urine Na+ and K+? Diuretic abuse"
"How do the following laboratory values change in a patient with hypovolemia? ADH: Increase Renin: Increase Aldosterone: Increase"
"What renal pathology is likely present in an asymptomatic patient with the CT below? Simple renal cyst"
"What is the recommended management for an asymptomatic simple renal cyst? Reassurance (no follow-up required)"
"What drug class is useful for the management of recurrent nephrolithiasis secondary to idiopathic hypercalciuria? Thiazide diuretics"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a renal transplant for 3 days who presents with oliguria, elevated creatinine/BUN, lymphocytic infiltration on biopsy, and normal serum cyclosporine levels? Acute transplant rejection"
"What is recommended treatment for an acute rejection of a renal transplant? IV steroids"
"What psychiatric medication is associated with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus? Lithium"
"What is the typical volume state (hypo, eu-, or hyper-volemic) of patients with hypercalcemia? Hypovolemic"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient started on nitroprusside who presents with flushing, confusion, and metabolic acidosis? Cyanide toxicity"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with metabolic alkalosis and hypokalemia secondary to recurrent vomiting? IV saline and potassium"
"Which type of hematuria, glomerular or non-glomerular, is associated with microscopic hematuria and proteinuria? Glomerular hematuria"
"What is the initial therapy for patients with hypertension and renal artery stenosis? ACE inhibitors or ARBs"
"Which diuretics (2) are commonly administered to cirrhotic patients with volume overload and ascites? furosemide and spironolactone"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is associated with Hodgkin lymphoma? Minimal change disease"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is most commonly associated with malignancies? Membranous nephropathy"
"Hypokalemia may be caused by increased intracellular entry of K+, which can occur with insulin, β-adrenergic agonists, and hematopoiesis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with intermittent flank pain, low-volume voids, and occasional episodes of high-volume voids? Obstructive uropathy"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is most likely in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis? Amyloidosis (AA)"
"What class of autonomic drugs may be useful for treating and facilitating passage of ureteric kidney stones (in addition to IV hydration and analgesics)? alpha1-blockers (e.g. tamsulosin)"
"Some side effects of thiazide diuretics may be remembered with the mnemonic \hyper-GLUC\\": G: hyperGlycemia L: hyperLipidemia U: hyperUricemia C: hyperCalcemia\""
"What is the likely cause of metabolic alkalosis in a young woman with low urine Cl-? Self-induced vomiting"
"What does a positive leukocyte esterase on urine dipstick indicate? Significant pyuria"
"What does positive nitrites on urine dipstick indicate? Gram negative bacteria"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female with photosensitivity, headaches, thrombocytopenia, hematuria, and proteinuria? SLE"
"What class of drugs are useful for patients with urge incontinence? Anti-muscarinics (e.g. oxybutynin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a chronic atrial fibrillation patient taking furosemide, metoprolol, digoxin, and warfarin who presents with diarrhea, nausea, decreased appetite, and arrhythmias? Digoxin toxicity"
"The CHA2DS2-VASc score is useful for assessing thromboembolic risk in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation: C: Congestive heart failure H: Hypertension A2: Age > 75* (2 points) D: Diabetes mellitus S2: Stroke/TIA/thromboembolism* (2 points) V: Vascular disease (prior MI, PAD, or aortic plaque) A: Age 65-74 Sc: Sex category (female)"
"What is the initial treatment for chronic venous insufficiency? Conservation measures (e.g. leg elevation, exercise, compression therapy)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a post-MI patient that presents a few weeks later with chest pain that improves while leaning forward and diffuse ST elevation on ECG? Dressler's syndrome (a type of pericarditis)"
"Cold-water immersion relieves symptoms of paraoxysmal supraventricular tachycardia by decreasing AV node conductivity"
"Cor pulmonale is impaired function of the right ventricle due to pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery systolic pressure > 25 mmHg)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with recent uveitis, complete AV heart block, and bilateral midfield lung opacities on CXR? Cardiac sarcoidosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with peripheral edema, ascites, JVD without inspiratory decline, and pericardial calcifications on CXR? Constrictive pericarditis"
"What is the most common cause of constrictive pericarditis in developing countries? Tuberculosis"
"The combination of atrial tachycardia with AV block is specific for digitalis toxicity"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with a smoking history that presents with episodic chest pain that resolves spontaneously and is associated with transient ST-segment elevation during the episodes? Vasospastic angina"
"What two drugs/drug classes are used for dual anti-platelet therapy? aspirin and P2y12 receptor blockers (e.g. clopidogrel)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a hypotensive patient requiring IV fluids/pressors to maintain BP that develops cool extremities and the skin findings below? Pressor-induced vasospasm (e.g. norepinephrine)"
"What is the initial management for a patient with suspected acute arterial occlusion leading to an immediately-threatened limb (e.g. sensory loss, weakness)? Anticoagulation (e.g. IV heparin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient from a developing country that presents with dyspnea, hemoptysis, and occasional palpitations? Mitral stenosis (from rheumatic heart disease)"
"Medications that have been shown to improve long-term survival in patients with LV systolic dysfunction include: 1. β-blockers 2. ACE inhibitors 3. ARBs 4. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists 5. Hydralazine and nitrates in African American patients"
"What is the likely cause of syncope in a young patient with occasional chest pain, dyspnea, and a crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur along the left sternal border without carotid radiation? Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient status-post coronary angiogram that presents with abdominal pain, AKI, eosinophilia, and purple mottling of both feet? Cholesterol embolism"
"What adrenergic receptor is the primary target of dobutamine? β1 receptors (agonist)"
"Dobutamine improves symptoms of decompensated heart failure by increasing myocardial contractility"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent URI that presents with syncope, dyspnea, and the ECG findings below? Pericardial effusion"
"What is the primary mechanism by which nitrates improve symptoms of angina? Systemic vasodilation (decreased preload)"
"What is the recommended management for a patient with a smoking/drinking history and atrial premature beats discovered on routine ECG (asymptomatic)? Avoid alcohol and tobacco"
"What valvular defects (2) are associated with Marfan syndrome? aortic regurgitation and mitral valve prolapse"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with hypertension and palpable bilateral, non-tender, upper abdominal masses on physical exam? Autosomal dominant PKD"
"What is the preferred medication for hypertension associated with autosomal dominant PKD? ACE inhibitors"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with upper extremity hypertension, brachial-femoral pulse delay, and a continuous interscapular murmur? Coarctation of the aorta"
"What is the recommended management for costochondritis? Reassurance and symptomatic pain management"
"What ECG finding is fairly specific for pericardial effusion? Electrical alternans"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an ischemic cardiomyopathy patient on antiarrhythmics that presents with progressive dyspnea, non-productive cough, and bilateral infiltrates on X-ray without JVD or peripheral edema? Amiodarone-induced interstitial pneumonitis"
"How do the following parameters change in LV systolic dysfunction (CHF)? Cardiac output: Decreased Systemic vascular resistance: Increased Left ventricular EDV: Increased"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient status-post lung biopsy that presents with severe shortness of breath and chest pain with a decreased cardiac output and increased PCWP? Cardiogenic shock (secondary to MI)"
"What valvular defect is associated with bacterial endocarditis in IV drug users? Tricuspid regurgitation"
"What is the likely cause of the imaging findings below in an IV drug user with a history of fever, cough, and tricuspid regurgitation? Septic pulmonary emboli"
"What abnormal heart sound is associated with a stiff left ventricle (e.g. LV hypertrophy due to prolonged hypertension)? S4"
"Which type of heart block is characterized by progressive lengthening of the PR interval followed by a dropped QRS complex? 2nd-degree, Mobitz type I (Wenckebach)"
"What level does a 2nd degree, Mobitz type I heart block typically occur? AV node"
"2nd-degree, Mobitz type I heart block has a(n) low risk to develop into complete heart block"
"Which type of heart block is characterized by equal length PR intervals with intermittent dropped QRS complexes? 2nd-degree, Mobitz type II"
"What level does a 2nd degree, Mobitz type II heart block typically occur? Below the AV node (e.g. bundle of His)"
"2nd-degree, Mobitz type II heart block has a(n) high risk to develop into complete heart block"
"What is the most effective non-pharmacologic measure to decrease blood pressure in an overweight, diabetic patient with significant tobacco/alcohol use? Weight loss"
"How do serum levels of digoxin change in patients who begin taking amiodarone? Increase"
"What is the recommended management for a hemodynamically stable Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome patient with atrial fibrillation? Procainamide"
"What is the recommended management for a hemodynamically unstable Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome patient with atrial fibrillation? Electrical cardioversion"
"What is the recommended screening protocol for abdominal aortic aneurysm? One-time abdominal ultrasound for any smokers (past/present) aged 65-75 years"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a male with a history of SLE that presents with epigastric burning provoked by exertion and relieved by rest? Atypical angina"
"What is the recommended diagnostic test for patients with chest pain that have intermediate-risk for CAD? Stress test (ECG, exercise ECG, pharm)"
"What is the primary mitral valve abnormality in patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy? Systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve"
"What physiologic effect results in increased intensity of a murmur due to hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy? Decreased preload"
"Ascending aortic aneurysms are most often due to cystic medial necrosis (due to aging) and connective tissue disorders"
"Descending aortic aneurysms are usually due to underlying atherosclerosis"
"What is the preferred preventive treatment for vasospastic (Prinzmetal) angina? Calcium channel blockers"
"What is the preferred abortive treatment for episodes of vasospastic angina? Sublingual nitroglycerin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a chronic renal failure patient that presents with pleuritic chest pain that improves when leaning forward? Uremic pericarditis"
"Patients with CHF often have preferential vasoconstriction of efferent renal arterioles"
"What area of the myocardium is likely involved in an MI with ST elevations in leads V1 - V4? Anterior (typically LAD obstruction)"
"What area of the myocardium is likely involved in an MI with ST elevations in leads II, III, and aVF? Inferior (typically RCA obstruction, or less commonly LCX)"
"What area of the myocardium is likely involved in an MI with ST elevations in leads I and aVL? Lateral (typically LCX obstruction)"
"What artery is likely obstructed given the ECG below? Right coronary artery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with dizziness, weakness, and the ECG findings below? Complete heart block"
"What is the likely underlying cause of an early decrescendo diastolic murmur in a young patient in the U.S. with a family history of heart disease? Congenital bicuspid aortic valve"
"What physical exam manuever is useful for distinguishing between cardiac- and liver disease-related causes of lower extremity edema? Hepatojugular reflux"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent URI that presents with JVD, hypotension, non-palpable PMI, and clear lungs (CXR below)? Pericardial effusion"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on post-MI day 5 that presents with acute onset chest pain and profound shock without signs of congestive heart failure? Ventricular free wall rupture"
"What is the mode of inheritance of hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy? Autosomal dominant"
"What is the recommended lipid-lowering therapy for patients < 75 that have clinically significant atherosclerotic disease? High-intensity statin"
"What is the recommended therapy for patients > 75 that have clinically significant atherosclerotic disease? Moderate-intensity statin"
"Patients with an LDL > 190 mg/dL are recommended to begin high-intensity statin therapy"
"Patients with an estimated 10-year ASCVD risk > 7.5% should be started on a moderate- to high-intensity statin"
"What class of anti-arrhythmic is characterized by prolonged QRS durations at faster heart rates? Class I (especially class IC)"
"What class of anti-arrhythmic is characterized by prolonged PR intervals at faster heart rates? Class IV (CCBs)"
"What anti-hypertensive medication is commonly associated with peripheral edema as an adverse effect? Dihydropyridine Ca2+-channel blockers"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on post-MI day 3 that presents with pleuritic chest pain that improves when leaning forward with clear lungs on auscultation? Peri-infarction pericarditis"
"What is the treatment of choice for peri-infarction pericarditis? Supportive"
"What is the preferred initial management for symptomatic patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy? β-blockers"
"What is the recommended treatment for a hemodynamically stable patient with a history of panic attacks that presents with chest tightness, lightheadedness, and the ECG below? Adenosine"
"What drug classes are useful for reducing Ca2+ channel blocker-induced peripheral edema? ACE inhibitors and ARBs"
"What is the best initial management for a hemodynamically stable patient with palpitations and the ECG findings below? IV amiodarone"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of recent MI or history of peripheral arterial disease that presents with pain, pallor, paresthesias, and pulselessness in one limb? Acute limb ischemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young, non-smoker that presents with difficulty breathing, pulsus paradoxus, and a normal cardiac exam? Asthma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient 2 months post-MI that presents with CHF and persistent ST elevations/deep Q waves on ECG? Ventricular aneurysm"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young, active patient that suddenly collapses while exercising and presents with a temperature of 106 F, confusion, and respiratory distress? Exertional heat stroke"
"What is the recommended cooling technique for patients with exertional heat strokes? Ice-water immersion"
"What is the recommended cooling technique for patients with non-exertional heat strokes? Evaporative cooling (e.g. spraying lukewarm water while fans blow air on skin)"
"What is the next step in management for an asymptomatic adult with an early diastolic murmur at the left sternal border that is best heard with expiration? Transthoracic echocardiogram"
"What is the most common cause of mitral regurgitation in developed countries? Mitral valve prolpase"
"Features of severe aortic stenosis include a(n) late-peaking systolic murmur and a(n) soft second heart sound"
"What is the likely cause of LAD artery occlusion in a patient with recent stent placement in the LAD artery? Stent thrombosis (likely due to medication non-compliance)"
"What drug classes are used as first-line therapy for chronic stable angina? β-blockers (preferred) and non-dihydropyridine CCBs::2"
"Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is recommended for patients with acute STEMI within 12 hours of symptom onset and within 90 minutes from first medical contact to device time at a PCI-capable facility"
"What is the recommended reperfusion therapy for patients with STEMI that present within 12 hours of symptom onset but cannot undergo PCI? Fibrinolysis"
"What is the likely etiology of NSTEMI in a young patient with chest pain, agitation, and dilated pupils? Cocaine intoxication"
"What is the recommended diagnostic test for patients with chest pain that have high-risk for CAD? Coronary angiography"
"What is the likely cause of bradycardia, AV block, and diffuse wheezing in a CAD patient that has attempted suicide? β-blocker overdose"
"First-line treatment options for β-blocker overdose include IV fluids and atropine"
"Patients with β-blocker overdose that have refractory hypotension (e.g. to atropine, IV fluids) should be started on IV glucagon"
"What is the likely diagnosis & treatment in a systemic sclerosis patient that presents with renal failure and malignant hypertension? Scleroderma renal crisis; treat with ACE Inhibitors"
"What abnormal RBC may be seen in patients with scleroderma renal crisis? Schistocytes"
"Atypical symptoms associated with MI are more common in women, the elderly, and diabetics"
"In addition to history and physical, patients initially diagnosed with hypertension should have the following basic testing: 1. Urinalysis (for occult hematuria and urine protein/creatinine ratio) 2. Chemistry panel 3. Lipid profile 4. Baseline ECG"
"What is the likely underlying etiology of chest pain for > 1 hour, associated with cough/hoarseness but unrelated to activity in a young patient with normal cardiac and pulmonary exam? Esophageal disease (e.g. GERD)"
"What imaging study should be considered in a patient with acute limb ischemia after an MI? Transthoracic echocardiogram"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of a stab wound that develops progressive weakness and exertional dyspnea with widened pulse pressure, tachycardia, and brisk carotid upstroke? High-output heart failure (secondary to AV fistula formation)"
"What is the initial treatment for tachycardia-mediated cardiomyopathy? Rate or rhythm control"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on post-op day 1 status-post CABG that presents with hypotension, tachycardia, and the findings below: Right atrium: 20 mmHg Right ventricle: 35/20 mmHg PCWP: 20 mmHg Cardiac tamponade"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that experienced a syncopal episode while urinating with normal cardiac exam? Situational syncope"
"What arrhythmia commonly develops in patients with mitral stenosis? Atrial fibrillation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with unexplained CHF accompanied by nephrotic-range proteinuria (> 3.5 g/day) and concentric LV hypertrophy with normal ventricular chamber dimensions? Amyloidosis"
"Diagnosis of amyloidosis is confirmed using tissue biopsy (e.g. abdominal fat pad)"
"The presence of a continuous abdominal bruit has a high specificity for the presence of renovascular hypertension"
"What is the recommended pharmaceutical treatment for acute pulmonary edema secondary to myocardial infarction? IV furosemide (unless patient is hypotensive or hypovolemic)"
"What pharmaceutical treatment should be avoided in patients with MI that present with CHF or bradycardia? β-blockers"
"What abnormal heart sound is associated with volume overload (e.g. CHF with LV dysfunction)? S3"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with uremic pericarditis? Hemodialysis"
"What thyroid disorder is associated with atrial fibrillation? Hyperthyroidism"
"What electrolyte abnormality parallels the severity of heart failure and is an independent predictor of adverse clinical outcomes? Hyponatremia"
"What is the likely physiologic cause of isolated systolic hypertension in an elderly patient? Increased stiffness of the arterial wall"
"How does baroreceptor sensitivity change with aging? Decreased sensitivity"
"What is preferred treatment to prevent coronary artery disease in a patient with inducible ischemia? Anti-platelet therapy (e.g. aspirin)"
"What intervention is most likely to improve cardiovascular and overall long-term mortality in patients with acute STEMI? Restoration of coronary blood flow (e.g. PCI, fibrinolysis)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an IV drug abuser with fever, an early diastolic murmur (left sternal border), and 2nd-degree AV block? Perivalvular abscess (secondary to aortic valve endocarditis)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with hypertension, epistaxis, headaches, and ST-segment depression/T-wave inversion in leads V5-V6 on ECG? Coarctation of the aorta"
"What is the mainstay of therapy to improve/normalize heart function in patients with alcoholic cardiomyopathy? Abstinence from alcohol"
"What is the most useful intervention to improve functional capacity and reduce symptomatic claudication in patients with peripheral artery disease? Supervised graded exercise program"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with fatigue, dizziness, and the ECG findings below? Sinus bradycardia"
"Symptomatic bradycardia is managed with IV atropine::initial treatment"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with extensive alcohol use and hypertension that is not well controlled on two medications? Counsel for reduction in alcohol intake"
"What valvular defect is associated with a hyperdynamic pulse (e.g. bounding or \water hammer\\" pulses)? Aortic regurgitation\""
"What is the recommended management for a patient with first-degree AV block and a normal QRS duration (< 120 msec)? Observation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with palpitations, tachycardia, and the ECG below (obtained after administration of medication)? Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a hypertensive patient with symptoms of CHF with LV hypertrophy and an ejection fraction of 55% on echocardiography? Diastolic heart failure (HFpEF)"
"What is the likely underlying cause of syncope in a patient with normal EF, prolonged PR interval, prolonged QRS interval, and a normal QTc interval on ECG? AV block or bradyarrhythmia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with exertional chest pain, differential blood pressure in upper extremities, a systolic murmur at the first right intercostal space, and a palpable thrill in the suprasternal notch? Supravalvular aortic stenosis"
"What is the recommended management for a 40-year-old male with atrial fibrillation and no history of diabetes, heart disease, or embolic event? Observation (no therapy required)"
"What is the initial management for a patient with pulmonary hypertension that presents with JVD, peripheral edema, bibasilar crackles, and an ejection fraction of 30%? Loop diuretics and ACE inhibitors (or ARBs)"
"How do the following parameters change in an acute MI patient with hypotension, bibasilar crackles, and a systolic murmur (cardiac apex)? Left atrial size: No change LV end-diastolic pressure: Increased"
"Management of acute decompensated heart failure includes supplemental O2, IV loop diuretics, and possibly a vasodilator/vasopressor"
"What is the treatment of choice for agitation in an NSTEMI patient with chest pain, agitation, dilated pupils, and normal cardiac enzymes? IV benzodiazepines"
"Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) should be considered for symptomatic patients (e.g. TIA, stroke) with carotid stenosis between 70 - 99% to reduce future stroke risk"
"What hypertensive complication is defined as severe hypertension (> 180/120 mmHg) with no symptoms or acute end-organ damage? Hypertensive urgency"
"What hypertensive complication presents as severe hypertension (> 180/120 mmHg) with retinal hemorrhages, exudates, or papilledema? Malignant hypertension (type of hypertensive emergency)"
"What hypertensive complication presents as severe hypertension (> 180/120 mmHg) with cerebral edema and non-localized neurologic signs/symptoms (e.g. confusion)? Hypertensive encephalopathy (type of hypertensive emergency)"
"What is the initial treatment for a hemodynamically stable patient with atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response? Rate control (e.g. β-blockers or CCBs)"
"What is the most effective non-pharmacologic measure to decrease blood pressure in a patient with significant tobacco/alcohol use and a BMI of 22 kg/m2? Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet"
"What class of drugs should be administered within 24 hours of an MI to limit ventricular remodeling? ACE inhibitors"
"What analgesics are associated with decreased metabolism of warfarin (i.e. increased bleeding risk)? acetaminophen and NSAIDs::2"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an implantable pacemaker that presents with peripheral edema, JVD, and a holosystolic murmur (left lower sternal border) with clear lungs on auscultation? Tricuspid regurgitation"
"The current indications for operative/endovascular repair of an AAA include rapid rate of expansion, presence of symptoms, and aneurysm size > 5.5 cm"
"Ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia is managed with Immediate defibrillation (aka unsynchronized cardioversion)::next step"
"What is the most important factor for survival in a patient with an out-of-hospital sudden cardiac arrest? Elapsed time to effective resuscitation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman with recurrent headaches, significant hypertension, and a subauricular/carotid systolic bruit? Fibromuscular dysplasia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient being treated with furosemide and nitroprusside for hypertensive emergency that develops confusion, agitation, and seizures? Cyanide toxicity"
"What is the likely underlying etiology of atrial fibrillation in a patient with weight loss, lid lag, and a tremor with outstretched hands? Hyperthyroidism"
"What is the initial therapy for patients with atrial fibrillation due to hyperthyroidism? β-blockers"
"What medication is most likely responsible for weight gain, constipation, dry skin, and elevated LFTs in a patient being treated for hypertension, LV systolic dysfunction, and persistent atrial fibrillation? Amiodarone"
"What is the likely underlying cause of a harsh systolic murmur (right second intercostal space) with radiation to the carotid arteries in a young patient in the U.S.? Bicuspid aortic valve"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an immigrant with a history of megacolon/megaesophagus that presents with pedal edema, JVD, and cardiomegaly? Chagas disease"
"What abnormal heart sound is often heard during the acute phase of myocardial infarction? S4 (atrial gallop)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with ST elevations in leads II, III, and aVF with JVD, hypotension and clear lungs on auscultation? Right ventricular MI"
"What is the initial management for hypotension in a patient with a right ventricular MI that has low-normal JVP? IV saline bolus (nitrates should be avoided)"
"What is the most appropriate initial therapy for a hemodynamically stable patient with chest pain and suspected acute coronary syndrome and low risk for aortic dissection? Aspirin"
"Flushing and pruritus secondary to niacin therapy is caused by prostaglandin-induced peripheral vasodilation"
"Asystole or pulseless electrical activity (no palpable pulse but electrical activity on ECG)? CPR and Epi::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that experiences syncopal episodes provoked by strong emotion with prodromal symptoms (e.g. nausea, diaphoresis)? Vasovagal (neurocardiogenic) syncope"
"Patients with recurrent vasovagal syncope may try physical counterpressure maneuvers during the prodromal phase to abort or delay the syncopal episode"
"What classes of medications should be held for 48 hours prior to cardiac stress testing? β-blockers, calcium channel blockers, and nitrates::3"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult with a month history of fever and malaise that develops symptoms of CHF with cardiomegaly on imaging? Viral myocarditis"
"What is the mechanism by which adenosine reveals obstructive CAD during cardiac stress testing? Augmentation of flow in non-obstructed vessels"
"Metabolic syndrome is diagnosed when at least 3 of the 5 following criteria are met: 1. Abdominal obesity (waist circumference > 40 inches in males, > 35 inches in females) 2. Fasting glucose (> 100-110 mg/dL) 3. Blood pressure (> 130/80 mmHg) 4. Triglycerides (> 150 mg/dL) 5. HDL cholesterol (< 40 mg/dL in men, < 50 mg/dL in women)"
"A major pathogenic factor underlying metabolic syndrome is insulin resistance"
"Primary adrenal insufficiency is associated with hypo-natremia and hyper-kalemia"
"Primary adrenal insufficiency is associated with increased levels of ADH"
"What is the most important contributing factor for diabetic foot ulcers? Diabetic neuropathy"
"Monofilament testing is useful for determining the presence of peripheral neuropathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged woman with hip/shoulder weakness, muscle atrophy, weight loss, and tachycardia? Hyperthyroidism"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient taking risperidone that presents with fatigue and headache with low TSH/LH and mildly elevated prolactin (< 200) on laboratory exam? Non-functioning pituitary adenoma"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is caused by impaired osteoid matrix mineralization? Osteomalacia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with celiac sprue that develops diffuse bone pain, muscle weakness, and the laboratory results below? Ca2+:low/normal Phosphate: low PTH: high Alkaline phosphatase: high Osteomalacia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with flushing, watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, and achlorhydria? VIPoma"
"The diagnosis of VIPoma is confirmed by a VIP level > 75 pg/mL"
"What is the most serious adverse effect associated with anti-thyroid drugs (e.g. methimazole, PTU)? Agranulocytosis"
"Which anti-thyroid drug, methimazole or PTU, is preferred in most patients? Methimazole (exception: women during the first trimester of pregnancy)"
"Screening for diabetes is recommended in patients with a sustained blood pressure > 135/80 mmHg and may be considered in all patients > 45 years old"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is associated with pseudofractures (Looser zones)? Osteomalacia"
"How do the following laboratory values typically change in patients with osteoporosis? Calcium: normal Phosphate: normal Alkaline phosphatase: normal"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with low urine osmolality that improves to > 600 mOsm/kg after 2-3 hours of water deprivation? Primary polydipsia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with low urine osmolality that does not improve significantly following water deprivation and administration of desmopressin? Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus"
"What initial laboratory test is best to help determine the underlying etiology of hypercalcemia? PTH levels"
"Primary hyperaldosteronism is characterized by low renin and high aldosterone"
"Secondary hyperaldosteronism is characterized by high plasma renin activity and high plasma aldosterone concentration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a malignant thyroid nodule, elevated calcitonin, and a family history of thyroid cancer? MEN2 (A or B)"
"What is the initial treatment for a patient with an asymptomatic microprolactinoma (< 10mm)? No treatment"
"What electrolyte abnormality is typically the cause of hypocalcemia in an alcoholic patient? Severe hypomagnesemia"
"What formula is used to calculate the \corrected Ca2+\\" in a patient with low albumin? serum Ca2+ + 0.8(4 - serum albumin)\""
"How do the following laboratory values change in central adrenal insufficiency? Cortisol: decreased ACTH: decreased Aldosterone: normal (no change)"
"How do the following laboratory values change in primary adrenal insufficiency? Cortisol: decreased ACTH: increased Aldosterone: decreased"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a chronic smoker that develops hypertension, hyperglycemia, and weight gain? Cushing's syndrome (likely ectopic production of ACTH from a small cell lung cancer)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with headaches, weight loss, intermittent palpitations, and visual disturbances? Laboratory exam reveals elevated T3/T4 and TSH. TSH-secreting pituitary adenoma"
"What is the next step in diagnosis for a patient with myalgias, proximal muscle weakness, elevated creatine kinase, and delayed reflexes? Measure TSH and T4 (to evaluate for hypothyroid myopathy)"
"What hormone level should be measured as part of the initial diagnostic workup in a patient with confirmed hypocalcemia? Parathyroid hormone"
"What is a common complication of radioactive iodine when treating Graves disease? Permanent hypothyroidism"
"A patient with diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy with symptoms of pain, paresthesias, and allodynia likely has injury to the small::large/small nerve fibers"
"A patient with diabetic sensorimotor polyneuropathy with symptoms of loss of proprioception/vibration sense and foot deformities likely has injury to the large::large/small nerve fibers"
"Untreated acromegaly can cause concentric myocardial hypertrophy (concentric or eccentric)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a female that develops proximal muscle weakness (e.g. hair combing, stair climbing) without pain, as well as hirsutism and hypertension? Glucocorticoid-induced myopathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient taking HCTZ, levothyroxine, and OTC mineral supplements (for osteoporosis) that develops symptomatic hypercalcemia, metabolic alkalosis, and AKI? Milk-alkali syndrome"
"What is the likely explanation for the abnormal laboratory values in a pregnant woman that experiences fatigue, anxiety, and difficulty sleeping with normal TSH and elevated total T4? Thyroid examination is benign. Increased thyroid-binding globulin (TBG) level"
"Graves ophthalmopathy is caused by T-cell activation and stimulation of orbital fibroblasts by TSH receptor antibodies, leading to expansion of orbital tissues"
"What is the most common cause of primary adrenal insufficiency in developed countries? Autoimmune adrenalitis"
"What should be suspected in a patient taking PTU or methimazole that presents with fever and sore throat? Agranulocytosis"
"What is the next step in management for a patient taking PTU or methimazole that develops fever and sore throat? Discontinuation of the drug, measure WBC count"
"What cardiovascular effect of thyrotoxicosis causes systolic hypertension? Increased myocardial contractility and heart rate"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an acute MI complicated by cardiogenic shock that develops a low total T3 level despite normal TSH/free T4? Euthyroid sick syndrome (low T3 syndrome)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an asymptomatic patient with a slightly elevated TSH despite normal free T3/T4 levels? Subclinical hypothyroidism"
"How do the following laboratory values change in milk-alkali syndrome? PTH: Decreased Ca2+: Increased Metabolic alkalosis"
"What is the initial management for an elderly patient with heat intolerance, sweating, and palpitations and a low TSH and high free T3/T4 on laboratory exam? β-blocker and anti-thyroid drugs (e.g. methimazole)"
"Anti-thyroid drug therapy alone may be used to treat Graves disease in those with mild disease, pregnant women, or older patients with limited life expectancy"
"What is the appropriate definitive treatment for a patient with severe ophthalmopathy secondary to Graves disease? Thyroidectomy"
"Psychiatric medications that are useful for pain management in diabetic neuropathy patients include TCAs, SNRIs, and anticonvulsants (e.g. gabapentin, pregabalin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with nausea/vomiting, weight loss, and polydipsia? Laboratory exam is significant for low HCO3- and high blood glucose/K+ levels. Diabetic ketoacidosis"
"What is the recommended IV fluid regimen for hydration in patients with diabetic ketoacidosis? 0.9% NS initially, add dextrose 5% when serum glucose is < 200 mg/dL"
"What is the recommended insulin regimen in patients with diabetic ketoacidosis? IV insulin initially followed by subcutaneous insulin (see below); overlap SQ & IV insulin by 1-2 hours"
"Potassium should be added to the IV fluids of a patient with diabetic ketoacidosis once serum K+ is < 5.2 mEq/L"
"What formula is used to calculate the \corrected Na+\\" in a patient with severe hyperglycemia? Na+ + 2 mEq/L for every 100 mg/dL glucose is over 100 mg/dL\""
"Tight blood glucose control in patients with diabetes is most likely to decrease risk of micro-vascular complications"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female with irregular menses, hirsutism, and elevated serum testosterone with no abdominal striae? Polycystic ovary syndrome"
"What medications (4) should be administered to a patient with suspected thyroid storm? 1. Propranolol (β-blocker) 2. Propylthiouracil (PTU) 3. Potassium iodide (unless pregnant) 4. Prednisone (or other glucocorticoid)"
"Which subtype of thyroid cancer is associated with elevated calcitonin? Medullary thyroid carcinoma"
"What is the most common underlying cause of neuropathic ulcers? diabetes mellitus"
"What hypothalamic hormone is directly inhibited by prolactin? GnRH"
"A prolactin level > 200 ng/mL is virtually diagnostic of prolactinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a pituitary mass and the laboratory values below? Prolactin: 45 ng/mL (normal, < 15) LH: low TSH: low Non-functional (gonadotroph) pituitary adenoma"
"What is the preferred imaging modality for evaluation of pituitary tumors? MRI"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an insulin-dependent diabetic patient with anorexia, nausea/vomiting, early satiety, and post-prandial hypoglycemia without heartburn or epigastric pain? Diabetic gastroparesis"
"Diabetic gastroparesis may be managed with small, frequent meals and prokinetic agents such as metoclopramide, erythromycin, and cisapride"
"What are the best markers for indicating resolution of diabetic ketoacidosis? Serum anion gap and β-hydroxybutyrate levels"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with hyperaldosteronism? Metabolic alkalosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with weight loss/tachycardia and a diffusely tender thyroid with low TSH and high free T4? Subacute (de Quervain) thyroiditis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African-American patient that presents with dark urine that stains positive with Prussian blue after being treated for a urinary tract infection? G6PD deficiency"
"What drug class may be used to treat hypercalcemia due to immobilization? Bisphosphonates"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a psychatric patient with increasing polyuria/polydipsia with hyponatremia, low serum osmolality, and low urine osmolality? Primary polydipsia"
"How does oral estrogen change the required therapeutic dose of levothyroxine in patients with hypothyroidism? Increased dose required"
"How do ionized Ca2+ levels change in a patient with respiratory or metabolic alkalosis? Decreased ionized Ca2+"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly diabetic patient that develops weakness and blurred vision after a viral URI with a markedly elevated serum glucose (> 1000 mg/dL) on laboratory exam? Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state"
"How do total K+ levels typically change in patients with diabetic ketoacidosis or hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state? Decreased"
"What thyroid abnormality (hyper- or hypothyroidism) is associated with hyperlipidemia (e.g. hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia)? Hypothyroidism"
"What is the recommended blood pressure goal for patients with diabetes without proteinuria? < 140/90 mmHg"
"A patient's diabetes is considered well controlled if the HbA1c is < 7.0%"
"What additional risk factor(s) warrant initiation of statin therapy in a diabetic patient between age 40 - 75? None. ALL diabetic patients should be started on statin therapy, regardless of other risk factors"
"What is the most important initial step in management of a patient with hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state? Fluid replacement with normal saline"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with hypercalcemia, elevated PTH, and high urine Ca2+? Primary hyperparathyroidism"
"What is the likely etiology of hyperthyroidism in a patient with elevated free T3/T4, low TSH, and the radioactive iodine scan below? Toxic adenoma"
"How do total Ca2+ levels change in patients with hypoalbuminemia? Decreased"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged female that develops rapid-onset hirsutism and amenorrhea? Androgen-secreting neoplasm (of ovaries or adrenal gland)"
"What is the likely source of an androgen-secreting tumor in a female with elevated testosterone and normal dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) levels? Ovaries (more common)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese young woman that presents with male-pattern baldness, excessive acne, and amenorrhea? Polycystic ovarian syndrome"
"What test should be used to screen for diabetes mellitus in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome? Oral glucose tolerance test"
"Indications for BRCA mutation testing include a 1st or 2nd degree relative with breast & ovarian cancer (any age) or two 1st degree relatives with breast cancer, including 1 at age < 50"
"What is the most beneficial therapy for reducing the progression of diabetic nephropathy? Strict blood pressure control"
"What is the major gluconeogenic amino acid in the liver? Alanine"
"Alanine is converted to pyruvate by alanine aminotransferase during the process of gluconeogenesis"
"What is the likely etiology of hyperthyroidism in a patient with a normal sized thyroid, diffusely decreased radioactive iodine uptake, and low serum thyroglobulin? Exogenous hormone"
"What treatment option for Graves disease may be associated with worsening of ophthalmopathy? Radioactive iodine"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops pallor, tachycardia, and severe hypertension without fever after induction of anesthesia? The patient has a history of frequent headaches and hypertension. Pheochromocytoma"
"How do the serum levels of the following change with vitamin D deficiency? Ca2+: Decrease Phosphate: Decrease PTH: Increase"
"What pregnancy complication is associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis? Miscarriage"
"What is the underlying etiology of altered mental status in patients with hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state? Hyperosmolality"
"What is the pathophysiology underlying hyperthyroid-induced bone loss? Increased osteoclast activity"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a family history of kidney stones and stomach ulcers that presents with refractory peptic ulcer disease, hypercalcemia, and low serum phosphorus? MEN1"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients that develop heparin-induced thrombocytopenia? discontinue heparin, begin alternative anticoagulant (e.g. direct thrombin inhibitor, fondaparinux)"
"What is the most common cause of megaloblastic anemia in chronic alcoholics? Folate deficiency"
"What is the drug class of choice for stabilizing bony metastatic lesions and preventing hypercalcemia of malignancy? Bisphosphonates"
"What is the likely underlying cause of anemia in a patient with a history of gastrectomy that presents with a shiny tongue, pale palmar creases, and laboratory evidence of hemolysis? Vitamin B12 deficiency (impaired DNA synthesis)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia that develops premature ventricular beats and acute kidney injury after initiating chemotherapy? Tumor lysis syndrome"
"How do the following laboratory values change with tumor lysis syndrome? Serum Ca2+: Decreased Serum K+: Increased Serum phosphate: Increased Serum uric acid: Increased"
"What is the most common mode of inheritance of hereditary spherocytosis? Autosomal dominant (75%)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a chronic smoker that presents with dyspnea, weight loss, and face/arm swelling that is worst in the morning? SVC syndrome"
"What is the initial imaging modality used for diagnosis of SVC syndrome? Chest X-ray"
"What anticoagulant is associated with decreased levels of proteins C and S? Warfarin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an asymptomatic Italian male that is found to have microcytic anemia with an abnormally high HbA2 on routine laboratory testing? β-thalassemia minor"
"What is the most common source of symptomatic pulmonary embolism? Proximal deep leg veins (e.g. femoral, popliteal, iliac)"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient on warfarin that presents with an acute DVT with a subtherapeutic INR due to improper dieting/non-compliance? Oral factor Xa inhibitors (e.g. rivaroxaban)"
"Why do patients with multiple myeloma have an increased risk of infection? Hypogammaglobulinemia"
"What is the recommended treatment for immune thrombocytopenic purpura in adults with platelet counts < 30,000/uL or bleeding? IVIG or corticosteroids"
"What is the underlying pathophysiology leading to sepsis with gram-positive cocci in a patient with a history of \LUQ abdominal surgery\\"? Impaired antibody-mediated phagocytosis\""
"What is the likely underlying etiology of anemia in an elderly patient with fatigue, lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly? Bone marrow infiltration (e.g. lymphoma, leukemia)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with epistaxis, red blanchable papules on the lips, digital clubbing and isolated polycythemia on laboratory exam? Hereditary telangiectasia (Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops a fever, chills, and malaise two hours after starting RBC tranfusion? Coombs test is negative. Febrile non-hemolytic transfusion reaction"
"What is the recommended RBC pre-treatment for a patient who will receive a transfusion of pRBCs and has a history of febrile non-hemolytic transfusion reaction? Leukoreduction"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a year history of fatigue, weakness, and difficulty remembering things? Laboratory examination reveals macrocytic anemia, anisocytosis, poikilocytosis, and basophilic stippling. Measure serum B12 and folate levels"
"The pentad of symptoms seen in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) may be remembered using the mnemonic FAT RN: F: Fever A: Anemia (MAHA) T: Thrombocytopenia R: Renal symptoms N: Neurologic symptoms"
"What is the recommended treatment for thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP)? Emergent plasma exchange +/- corticosteroids"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an alcoholic vegan patient being treated with thiamine and folate for anemia that develops recurrent falls and increasing forgetfulness? Vitamin B12 deficiency/subacute combined degeneration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a facial rash that worsens with sun exposure, and a history of DVT, transient ischemic attacks, and 2 miscarriages? Anti-phospholipid syndrome"
"Lupus anticoagulant (anti-phospholipid antibody) is associated with prolonged PTT and a(n) hyper-coagulable state"
"Pica, especially for ice (pagophagia), may be indicative of iron deficiency anemia"
"What is the most common underlying etiology of pancytopenia in patients with SLE? Immune-mediated peripheral destruction"
"Patients with pernicious anemia should be monitored for development of gastric cancer"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops fever/chills, flank pain, hemoglobinuria, and DIC within 1 hour after starting RBC tranfusion? Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction"
"What is the usually the underlying etiology behind acute hemolytic transfusion reactions? ABO incompatibility"
"What is the likely underlying cause of vitamin B12 deficiency in a Caucasian male with fatigue, atrophic glossitis, vitiligo, and a vegan diet x5 months? Pernicious anemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with brownish skin pigmentation, elevated fasting glucose, and elevated LFTs? Hereditary hemochromatosis"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia is associated with a(n) low leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) score"
"Diagnosis of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria may be made with flow cytometry, which can detect the absence of the proteins CD55 and CD59"
"What is the likely underlying cause of microcytic anemia in a patient with chronic kidney disease that recently began erythropoietin therapy? Iron deficiency"
"What vitamins (3) are typically administered to patients with hypercoagulability secondary to increased homocysteine levels? vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), B9 (folate), and B12 (cobalamin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an alcoholic patient that begins bleeding from an IV site on post-operative day 7 after having an emergency surgery? Laboratory exam reveals anemia with elevated PT/PTT and normal platelet counts. Vitamin K deficiency"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adult African-American patient that presents with splenomegaly and scleral icterus two weeks after having a URI treated with amoxicillin? Peripheral blood smear reveals spherocytosis. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia"
"What two viruses should be tested for in an asymptomatic patient with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)? HIV and hepatitis C"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult with worsening knee pain refractory to NSAID therapy and an expansile lytic area in the epiphysis of the distal femur identified on X-ray? Giant cell tumor of bone (osteoclastoma)"
"What is the pathophysiologic mechanism underlying polycythemia in patients with obstructive sleep apnea? Increased EPO production from kidneys (secondary to hypoxemia)"
"What screening tests would be useful for evaluating an elderly patient with chronic arm pain, anemia, and back pain (X-ray below)? Serum/urine protein electrophoresis (SPEP/UPEP) or serum free light chain analysis"
"Intravascular hemolytic anemias are associated with decreased levels of haptoglobin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that received a bone marrow transplantation from a sibling that develops a maculopapular rash, bloody diarrhea, and elevated LFTs after two weeks? Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African-American male that develops dark urine, fatigue, and jaundice after being treated with TMP-SMX? Peripheral smear reveals bite cells, but a G6PD activity assay is normal. G6PD deficiency"
"Leukemoid reaction is associated with a(n) high leukocyte alkaline phosphatase (LAP) score"
"What is the most important initial screening test in a Mediterranean female receiving preconception counseling due to possible thalassemia? CBC"
"What type of anemia is characterized by the following laboratory values? MCV: low Serum iron: high Ferritin: high Sideroblastic anemia"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with suspected sideroblastic anemia after initiating RIPE therapy for tuberculosis? Pyridoxine (vitamin B6)"
"What category of therapy is characterized the following scenario: a patient undergoes radical prostatectomy and has an undetectable PSA post-surgery. Several months later, the patient's PSA is elevated again and he undergoes radiation therapy. Salvage therapy"
"What category of therapy is characterized the following scenario: a patient undergoes radical prostatectomy with concurrent radiation therapy for prostate cancer. Adjuvant therapy"
"What category of therapy is characterized the following scenario: a patient undergoes radiation therapy prior to having a radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer. Neoadjuvant therapy"
"What peripheral blood smear finding is associated with multiple myeloma? Rouleaux formation"
"What is the recommended treatment for polycythemia vera? Phlebotomy +/- hydroxyurea"
"What is the most common side effect associated with recombinant erythropoietin? Worsening of hypertension (30%)"
"What amino acid is likely elevated in a patient with the following peripheral blood smear? Homocysteine"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)? Flow cytometry"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient that presents with headaches, blurry vision, hepatosplenomegaly? Serum protein electrophoresis reveals a sharp M-spike of IgM. Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia"
"What chromosomal mutation underlies the pathophysiology of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? t(9;22); BCR-ABL fusion"
"What is the first-line treatment for most patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)? Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (e.g. imatinib)"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient initiated on phenytoin therapy for seizures that develops anemia? Folic acid"
"What peripheral blood smear finding is associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)? Smudge cells"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young male that presents with irritability, aggressive behavior, and gynecomastia with isolated polycythemia on laboratory exam? Androgen abuse"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a signficant smoking history that presents with daytime headaches, dizziness, and nausea? CBC reveals elevated hemoglobin levels. The patient works in a parking garage. Carbon monoxide poisoning"
"What is the recommended pharmacologic treatment for patients with cancer-related anorexia/cachexia syndrome (CACS)? Progesterone analogs (preferred) or corticosteroids"
"What is the recommended pharmacologic treatment for patients with chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting? 5-HT3 (serotonin) receptor antagonists"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops wheezing, respiratory distress, and hypotension minutes after reciving a pRBC transfusion? Anaphylactic reaction"
"What condition is associated with increased risk for anaphylactic reaction when receiving blood transfusions? IgA deficiency"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a landscaper with a finger ulceration, draining an odorless, nonpurulent discharge, that spread to include similar nodules along the forearm? There is no lymphadenopathy on physical exam. Sporotrichosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for sporotrichosis? Oral itraconazole (3 - 6 months)"
"What is the next step in management for an asymptomatic patient that has a 12-mm induration two days after a PPD injection? The patient has no TB risk factors. No additional intervention required"
"In the United States, a PPD is considered negative in healthy patients with low likelihood of TB if the induration size is < 15 mm"
"What autoimmune antibody may be elevated in patients with infective endocarditis? Rheumatoid factor"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that recently returned from Mexico and developed abdominal pain and nausea/vomiting, followed by periorbital edema and muscle pain a few days later? Laboratory exam reveals eosinophilia and elevated creatine kinase. Trichinellosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent UTI that presents with fever, back pain, focal tenderness over the L4-L5 vertebrae, and paravertebral muscle spasm? Vertebral osteomyelitis"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with suspected vertebral osteomyelitis that has a significantly elevated ESR with normal spinal X-ray? MRI"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with cryptococcal meningoencephalitis? amphotericin B plus flucytosine, followed by fluconazole"
"What is the likely underlying infection in a patient with recurrent blisters on sun-exposed areas with fatigue, nausea, and elevated LFTs? Chronic hepatitis C infection"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents in the winter with abrupt onset high-grade fever, headache, and severe myalgias? No lymphadenopathy or abnormal lung sounds are appreciated on physical exam. Influenza"
"What is the recommended treatment for a middle-aged patient that presents with symptoms related to influenza for 4 days? Symptomatic treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with fever, sore throat, drooling, and muffled voice with pooled secretions visible in the oropharynx? There is no visible swelling of the floor of the mouth. Epiglottitis"
"What are the recommendations regarding live attenuated virus vaccination (e.g. MMR, zoster, varicella) in HIV patients? Vaccinate if CD4+ counts > 200/mm3 and titers are low"
"When should a patient visiting a malaria endemic country take chemoprophylactics (e.g. mefloquine)? > 2 weeks prior to travel, during the stay, and 4 weeks after returning"
"In areas with high rates of chloroquine-resistant malaria, chemoprophylaxis typically includes atovaquone-proguanil, doxycycline, or mefloquine"
"What anti-malarial drug is used to prevent dormant hepatic hypnozoites in patients infected with Plasmodium vivax? Primaquine"
"What is the next step for confirming the diagnosis in a patient that developed a non-painful ulcer on the shaft of his penis with negative VDRL and HIV tests? Fluorescent treponemal antibody absorption (FTA-ABS)"
"What is the most common microorganism causing infective endocarditis in IV drug users? Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the recommended empiric treatment for infective endocarditis in IV drug users with native heart valves? Vancomycin"
"What is the likely causative microorganism in an alcoholic sailor that develops high-grade fever hours after cutting his foot while sailing in the ocean? The cut is surrounded by erythema and dark-colored bullae with streaking erythema extending proximally up the limb. Vibrio vulnificus"
"Infection with Vibrio vulnificus causes severe infection in patients who have liver::organ disease"
"What is the most common source of infection causing Ludwig angina? Infected mandibular molar (dental infection)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a HIV patient from Missouri with a CD4+ count of 50/mm3 that presents with cough/dyspnea, mouth ulcers, and diffuse lymphadenopathy? Laboratory exam reveals pancytopenia and elevated LFTs. Disseminated histoplasmosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with disseminated histoplasmosis? IV Amphotericin B (1-2 weeks), followed by oral itraconazole (> 1 year)"
"What are the two most common causes of secondary bacterial pneumonia? Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recently diagnosed infective endocarditis that now presents with fever and left-sided chest/abdominal pain? CT reveals a left-sided pleural effusion and splenomegaly with a splenic fluid collection. Splenic abscess (secondary to IE)"
"What is the recommended empiric treatment for high-risk patients with febrile neutropenia? broad-spectrum anti-pseudomonal agents (e.g. cefepime, meropenem, piperacillin-tazobactam)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with an intensely pruritic lesion on the foot (picture below)? Cutaneous larva migrans"
"How is cutaneous larva migrans typically acquired (mode of transmission)? Walking barefoot on contaminated sand or soil"
"What is the likely causative organism in a patient who develops infective endocarditis after having a recent cystoscopy for persistent dysuria? Enterococci (e.g. Enterococcus faecalis)"
"Osteomyelitis in diabetic patients is typically preceded by a long-standing foot ulcer that spreads contiguously to bone, causing a(n) poly-microbial infection"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with syphilis that develops fever, headache, myalgia, and a diffuse macular rash on the palms/soles after receiving a dose of IV penicillin G hours ago? Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction"
"What is the likely result of the following serologic tests in a patient vaccinated against hepatitis B? HBsAg: negative HBsAb: positive HBcAb: negative"
"What is the likely result of the following serologic tests in a patient naturally immunized against hepatitis B? HBsAg: negative HBsAb: positive HBcAb: positive"
"What is the likely result of the following serologic tests in a patient with chronic hepatitis B? HBsAg: positive HBsAb: negative HBcAb: positive"
"What antibody is typically positive during the window phase of hepatitis B infection? IgM anti-HBc"
"In healthy adults, acute hepatitis B infection is self-limited in > 90-95% of cases"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an IV drug user with a history of recent incarceration that presents with sub-acute onset of intermittent fevers, weight loss, fatigue, and non-productive cough (CXR below)? Miliary tuberculosis"
"What is the likely causative microorganism in a renal transplant patient that develops fever, progressive dyspnea on exertion, abdominal pain, bloody diarrhea, and elevated LFTs? Cytomegalovirus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult that presents with two-days of sore throat, enlarged/erythematous tonsils, lymphadenopathy, and splenomegaly? Many variant forms of lymphocytes are seen on peripheral smear despite a negative heterophile antibody test. Infectious mononucleosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled HIV that presents with a two day history of severe odynophagia, but no dysphagia? Oral examination is unremarkable (no thrush). Viral esophagitis::Viral/Candidal esophagitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with flu-like symptoms without a rash after being bitten by a tick two weeks ago? Laboratory exam reveals leukocytosis, thrombocytopenia, and signs of hemolytic anemia. Babesiosis"
"What type of tick is responsible for spreading babesia? Ixodes scapularis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an HIV patient with a CD4+ count of 175/mm3 that presents with fever, dry cough, and hypoxia? Laboratory exam reveals elevated LDH and CXR reveals diffuse, bilateral infiltrates. Pneumocystis pneumonia"
"What is the likely causative organism in a male that presents with dysuria, urinary frequency, and mucopurulent discharge? Gram stain and urine culture are negative. Chlamydia trachomatis"
"What is the test of choice to confirm the diagnosis of chlamydial urethritis? Nucleic acid amplification test"
"What are the indications for the PPSV23 vaccine, alone, in adults? Age < 65 with other chronic medical conditions (e.g. heart/lung/liver disease, diabetes, smoking)"
"What are the indications for sequential PCV13 vaccine, followed by PPSV23 vaccine 6-12 months later, in adults? Age > 65 or very high risk patients < 65 (e.g. HIV, asplenia, cochlear implants, immunocompromised, CKD)"
"What is the recommended tetanus vaccine schedule for adults with an unknown vaccination history? Tdap once → Td q10y"
"What is the preferred treatment for a patient with infective endocarditis secondary to penicillin-sensitive Streptococcus mutans? IV ceftriaxone (preferred) or IV penicillin G for 4 weeks"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recent travel in rural areas of South America that presents after having a generalized tonic clonic seizure? Brain MRI reveals several cystic lesions with surrounding edema. Neurocysticercosis"
"What is the treatment of choice for patients with suspected nocardiasis? Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a sex worker that presents with fever/chills, polyarthralgia, and pustules on the chest and extensor surfaces of the forearms? Disseminated gonococcal infection"
"What is the likely causative organism in a patient that presents with fever and mild pharyngeal erythema without lymphadenopathy? A heterophile antibody test is negative. Cytomegalovirus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with pneumonia symptoms, violaceous/verrucous skin lesions, and bone lesions? The patient works as a construction worker in Wisconsin. Blastomycosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled HIV that presents with headaches, confusion, fever, and mild neurologic deficits? Brain MRI: several ring-enhancing lesions Toxoplasma encephalitis"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with toxoplasmosis? sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine"
"Patients with HIV who present with an AIDS defining illness secondary to lack of anti-retroviral therapy should be initiated on HAART two weeks after treatment of the infection"
"Patients who received blood transfusions before 1992 should be screened for hepatitis C"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled diabetes that presents with fever, bloody nasal discharge, and necrosis of the right nasal turbinate/hard palate? Mucormycosis"
"How is the diagnosis of mucormycosis established? sinus endoscopy with biopsy & culture"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with suspected Entamoeba histolytica liver abscess? metronidazole and a luminal agent (e.g. paromomycin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient that presents with two days of fever, altered mental status, seizures, and the lumbar puncture findings below? Opening pressure: normal Protein: normal RBCs: high WBCs: high Lymphocytes: 90% Viral encephalitis (e.g. HSV)"
"What viral testing should be offered to a patient with fever, arthralgias, lymphadenopathy, prolonged diarrhea, and mucosal ulcerations? HIV testing"
"What is the likely causative organism in an HIV patient with a CD4+ count of 30/mm3 that presents with one month of fever, intermittent bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain, and weight loss? Cytomegalovirus (CMV)"
"What type of cancer is associated with Streptococcus gallolyticus infection? Colorectal cancer"
"What is the recommended prophylaxis for an unvaccinated healthcare worker that is exposed to blood from a hepatitis B positive patient? hepatitis B vaccine and hepatitis B immune globulin"
"Antibiotic prophylaxis in HIV patients with CD4+ count < 50/mm3 should include TMP-SMX::PCP, toxoplasma"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that is bitten by a neighbor's dog? The dog appears healthy but is not vaccinated against rabies. Observe the dog for 10 days for signs of rabies; post-exposure prophylaxis only if dog is symptomatic"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with two days of burning pain on the abdomen, followed by development of the rash below? Herpes zoster (shingles)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult with grey mucosal patches in the mouth, widespread (esp. epitrochlear) lymphadenopathy, and a diffuse maculopapular rash? Secondary syphilis"
"What prophylactic medications should be initiated in a patient who is beginning high-dose immunosuppression therapy following a renal transplant? 1. TMP-SMX (for PCP) 2. Ganciclovir or valganclovir (for CMV)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with multiple, large, well-demarcated painful ulcers on the penis with purulent exudate? The patient also has severe inguinal lymphadenopathy. Chancroid (Haemophilus ducreyi infection)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that recently returned from a trip to Kenya and presents with headache, fatigue, and episodic fever? Malaria"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that develops fever, malaise, splinter hemorrhages, and aortic regurgitation following a dental procedure? Obtain blood cultures"
"What is the likely causative organism in a patient that develops osteomyelitis after stepping on a rusty nail? The nail pierced the patient's shoes and pierced the heel. Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"What systemic mycoses are endemic to the Mississippi and Ohio River basins? Histoplasma and Blastomyces"
"What systemic mycoses are endemic to the Southwestern U.S.? Coccidioides"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice for patients with suspected Pneumocystis pneumonia without an adequate induced sputum sample? Bronchoalveolar lavage"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an Army officer in Arizona that presents with pleuritic chest pain, fever, arthralgias, and erythematous, tender nodules on the bilateral shins? CXR shows a right lower lobe infiltrate. Coccidioides immitis infection"
"What is the recommended meningococcal vaccine schedule for normal risk patients? primary vaccine preferably at age 11-12; booster at age 16-21"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recent travel out of the country that presents with fever, jaundice, and tender hepatomegaly with very elevated LFTs (AST/ALT > 1,000 U/L)? Acute hepatitis A infection"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recent travel to the Caribbean that presents with fever, polyarthralgias, and a diffuse maculopapular skin rash? Laboratory exam reveals leukopenia and thrombocytopenia. Chikungunya fever"
"What is the recommended treatment for Legionnaire's disease? macrolides or respiratory fluoroquinolones (e.g. levofloxacin, moxifloxacin)"
"What is the next step in management for a patient being treated with RIPE therapy for TB for the past month that develops mild elevations in AST/ALT? Continue with current treatment; monitor LFTs"
"What is the recommended hepatitis A vaccine schedule for adults who are not immunized (4 groups)? Recommended for men who have sex with men, IV drug users, travelers to endemic areas, and those with chronic liver disease"
"What is the likely causative organism in a patient with poorly controlled HIV that presents with large, reddish pedunculated skin lesions that bleed easily? CT scan of the abdomen reveals hypodense liver lesions that enhance with IV contrast. Bartonella spp."
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled HIV that develops multiple violaceous papules in the groin region? Kaposi sarcoma (HHV-8 infection)"
"What valvular dysfunction is most likely to be detected in a patient with a history of a \heart murmur\\" that develops infective endocarditis? Mitral regurgitation / MVP\""
"What is the next step in management for a patient that notices a tick on the leg with surrounding erythema after spending the past day outside? Remove the tick with tweezers and reassure"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled HIV that presents with subacute-onset fatigue, headache, and fever? Physical exam reveals signs of increased intracranial pressure (e.g. bilateral papilledema). Brain MRI is normal. Cryptococcal meningoencephalitis"
"What is the most common cause of community-acquired pneumonia in HIV patients? Streptococcus pneumoniae"
"What is the recommended treatment for mucormycosis? surgical debridement, liposomal amphotericin B, and elimination of promoting factors"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent patient that presents with headache, fever, nuchal rigidity, and lower extremity petechiae? CSF: Glucose: low Protein: high Leukocytes: high, neutrophilic predominance Meningococcal meningitis"
"Why is empiric antibiotic therapy avoided in patients with suspected enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) infection? May increase risk of HUS"
"What screening test(s) for STDs should be offered to an asymptomatic 22-year-old male that is not yet sexually active? HIV screening (p24 antigen and HIV antibody tests)"
"A PPD is considered positive in HIV patients if the induration size is > 5 mm"
"What is the next step in management for an HIV patient who has an 8-mm induration at 48 hours following PPD testing and a normal chest X-ray? 9 months of Isoniazid and pyridoxine (B6)"
"What is the likely diagnosis and causative organism in a patient that presents with a 1-day history of fever and a warm, tender, erythematous rash with raised, well-demarcated borders? Erysipelas; Streptococcus pyogenes (group A strep)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an HIV patient with a CD4+ count of 25/mm3 that presents with 3 weeks of fever, night sweats, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss? CXR, CMV serology, and PPD are all negative. Disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with suspected infectious mononucleosis that develops anemia and thrombocytopenia two weeks after the onset of IM symptoms? autoimmune hemolytic anemia"
"What is the most common manifestation of carditis secondary to Lyme disease? AV block"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with pyelonephritis that has clinically resolved after two days of IV ceftriaxone? Urine culture reveals E. coli sensitive to ceftriaxone and TMP-SMX. Switch to oral TMP-SMX"
"What is the recommended tetanus prophylaxis in an adult that stepped on a rusty nail? He received a 3-dose primary tetanus vaccination as a child (> 10 years ago). Tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice for patients with suspected leprosy? Skin biopsy from the edge of a lesion"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with mild leprosy? Dapsone and rifampin"
"What is the likely causative organism in an HIV patient with a CD4+ count of 85/mm3 that presents with three weeks of copious, watery diarrhea and low-grade fever? Cryptosporidium"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with HIV and a CD4+ count of < 200 that presents with altered mental status and motor deficits? Brain MRI reveals non-enhancing, focal white matter lesions with no edema. Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)"
"What microorganism is associated with acute epididymitis in older men (age > 35)? E. coli"
"What is the likely causative organism in an IV drug user that presents with three days of fever, pleuritic chest pain, and shortness of breath? Chest imaging reveals multiple nodular lesions with small cavities. Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with HIV and a CD4+ count of 85/mm3 that presents with dysphagia and substernal burning? White plaques that are easily removable are present on the palate. Oral fluconazole"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a slow-growing, painless mass in the mandible? The mass recently began draining a purulent discharge with small yellow granules. The patient's history is significant for a recent tooth extraction. Cervicofacial Actinomyces infection"
"What is the preferred treatment for a patient with cervicofacial actinomyces infection? Pencillin"
"What is the next step in management for a healthcare worker following a needle stick injury while drawing blood from an HIV-positive patient with a high viral load? Draw blood for HIV serology and start anti-retroviral therapy with 3 drugs immediately"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with pruritus and the rash below? A punch biopsy shows linear IgG and C3 deposits at the dermal-epidermal junction. Bullous pemphigoid"
"What is the first-line treatment for patients with bullous pemphigoid? High-potency topical glucocorticoids (e.g. clobetasol)"
"What is the first-line treatment for non-inflammatory comedonal acne vulgaris? Topical retinoids"
"What is the first-line treatment for mild inflammatory acne vulgaris? Benzoyl peroxide and topical retinoids"
"What patient population is likely to have a prolonged course of molluscum contagiosum, with widespread papules? Immunocompromised patients (e.g. HIV)"
"What is the most common skin malignancy in immunocompromised patients and patients with a chronic scar? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"What skin malignancy is most likely in a patient with a significant history of sun exposure and a slow-growing lesion (pictured below)? Basal cell carcinoma"
"What is the likely causative organism in a patient that presents with the rash below? Poxvirus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with a history of hepatitis C that presents with painless, pruritic vesicles and erosions on the dorsum of both hands? The patient has a history of \fragile skin\\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older patient with a black, raised nodule (pictured below)? It has a rubbery texture and oily surface. It has not changed in appearance over time. Seborrheic keratosis"
"Patients that have sudden onset of multiple seborrheic keratoses should be evaluated for underlying internal malignancy (e.g. GI)"
"What metal most likely caused the contact dermatitis pictured below? Nickel"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a lesion on the foot (pictured below)? The lesion is non-tender, firm, hyperpigmented, and has a central dimple in the center when pinched at the edges. Dermatofibroma"
"A young, obese patient presents with a velvety rash in the axilla and back of the neck (pictured below). What pathologic condition is likely associated with this rash? Insulin resistance"
"What underlying condition is associated with acanthosis nigricans in older individuals? GI malignancy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a sexually active college student with the rash below? It is painful and associated with low-grade fever. Herpetic whitlow (secondary to HSV infection)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with a 2 x 1 cm pigmented lesion on the abdomen (pictured below)? The lesion has increased in size over the past 6 months. Malignant melanoma"
"Vitiligo is often associated with other autoimmune conditions"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient that develops rapid-onset pruritus and multiple urticaria after taking amoxicillin for a sore throat? The lungs are clear to auscultation and there is no stridor. Antihistamines and discontinuation of amoxicillin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with painful mouth ulcerations and scattered, large painful blisters on the trunk and extremities? Light rubbing of uninvolved skin causes easy separation of the epidermis. Punch biopsy shows IgG and C3 deposits in a net-like pattern. Pemphigus vulgaris"
"What is the target of autoimmune antibodies in patients with pemphigus vulgaris? Desmosomes (desmogleins 1 & 3)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops numerous pruritic, erythematous papules with scattered vesicles/pustules on the finger webs, palms, and wrist creases (pictured below)? The itching is worse at night, and the patient also has numerous excoriations on the wrist. Scabies"
"What is the recommended treatment for adults with scabies? topical permethrin or oral ivermectin"
"What antibiotic is frequently prescribed for treatment of acne and associated with photosensitivity as an adverse reaction? Doxycycline"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an intensely pruritic and burning rash (pictured below)? The patient has also experienced ocassional diarrhea and weight loss. Dermatitis herpetiformis"
"What is the recommended treatment for dermatitis herpetiformis? dapsone (acute relief) and a gluten-free diet (long-term relief)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with well-circumscribed and raised erythematous plaques with intense pruritus (pictured below)? The rash occurs episodically, approximately 2 - 3x/day, with each episode lasting about 6 - 8 hours. Urticaria"
"Squamous cell carcinoma is the most common malignancy of the lower lip"
"Squamous cell carcinoma is characterized histologically by invasive cords of squamous cells with keratin pearls"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that noticed hypopigmented skin lesions on her trunk after returning from a summer vacation in Florida (pictured below)? Tinea versicolor (due to Malassezia infection)"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents with basal cell carcinoma on the cheek (pictured below)? Mohs surgery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recent steroid use who presents with uniform-appearing, erythematous papules across the back, shoulders, and upper arms? The papules appear to be in same stage of development and do not have associated comedones. Drug-induced acne (e.g. secondary to glucocorticoid use)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient that presents with the lesions below? Cherry angioma"
"Do cherry hemangiomas typically regress spontaneously? No"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with facial erythema, flushing, and telangiectasias? The flushing is precipitated by alcohol and hot drinks. Rosacea"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with diffusely rough, dry, and scaly skin? The symptoms are worse in the winter, and symptoms of dry skin have been present for most of the patient's life. Ichthyosis vulgaris"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with fever, mucosal lesions, and a desquamating rash on the trunk/thighs (pictured below)? The patient was prescribed TMP-SMX one week ago. Stevens-Johnson syndrome/Toxic epidermal necrolysis"
"What is the next step in management for a teenage male that presents with moderate inflammatory acne refractory to topical retinoids and benzoyl peroxide? Topical antibiotics (e.g. erythromycin, clindamycin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adult patient that presents with a pruritic rash for 6 weeks (pictured below)? Tinea corporis (ringworm)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with multiple ecchymoses on the hands and forearms? The lesions are not itchy nor painful and laboratory studies are within normal limits. Senile purpura"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient that presents with an itchy, greasy, yellowish, scaly facial rash (pictured below) and increased dandruff? Seborrheic dermatitis"
"Seborrheic dermatitis is associated with HIV and central nervous system disorders, especially Parkinson disease"
"What is the recommended treatment for seborrheic dermatitis in adults? Topical antifungals"
"Which type of skin infection involves the superficial dermis and manifests as raised, sharply demarcated edges? Erysipelas"
"Which type of skin infection involves the deep dermis and manifests as a flat, erythematous rash with indistinct borders? Cellulitis"
"Cellulitis is typically caused by Streptococcus pyogenes (nonpurulent) or Staphylococcus aureus (purulent)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young athlete that presents with sharp, non-radiating pain on the medial side of the tibia just below the knee after falling one week ago? A valgus stress test has no effect on the pain. Pes anserinus pain syndrome (anserine bursitis)"
"What is the recommended initial treatment for a patient that presents with their first episode of uncomplicated gout? NSAIDs (preferred), glucocorticoids, or colchicine"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with fever and migratory joint pain? Synovial fluid analysis reveals 65,000 WBC/mm3 with neutrophilic predominance. Gonococcal septic arthritis"
"Which form of Raynaud's phenomenon, primary or secondary, is characterized by asymmetric attacks with clinical features of tissue ischemia (e.g. numbness, ulcers)? Secondary Raynaud's phenomenon"
"Which form of Raynaud's phenomenon, primary or secondary, is characterized by symmetric attacks without tissue injury (e.g. numbness, ulcers)? Primary Raynaud's phenomenon"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with painful oral ulcers and mildly elevated LFTs? She was recently diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and started on medical therapy. Methotrexate side effect"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female athlete that presents with sharp, localized pain to palpation along the 2nd metatarsal bone? The patient is an avid runner and her BMI is 18 kg/m2. Stress fracture"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile patient that presents with acute right ankle pain that becomes \unbearable\\" over a few hours? He recalls having a similar episode 1 year ago that resolved with over-the-counter medication. Gout\""
"What X-ray finding is characteristic of pseudogout (calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystal deposition disease)? Chondrocalcinosis (calcification of articular cartilage)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient with recently diagnosed diabetes mellitus that presents with pseudogout and hepatomegaly? Hereditary hemochromatosis"
"What is the initial test that should be ordered in a patient with suspected SLE? Antinuclear antibody (ANA)"
"Systemic sclerosis is often characterized by decreased peristalsis and decreased tone in the lower esophageal sphincter on manometry"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is significantly more prevalent in patients with rheumatoid arthritis? Osteopenia/osteoporosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of recurrent pulmonary infections that presents with facial swelling, bilateral lower-extremity edema, hepatomegaly, and palpable kidneys? Urinalysis reveals 4+ proteinuria. Secondary (AA) amyloidosis"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents with suspected lumbosacral radiculopathy (sciatica) after lifting a heavy box? Neurological exam is unremarkable. Trial of NSAIDs/acetaminophen"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a one-week history of fatigue and symmetric joint pain/stiffness for 10 - 15 minutes upon awakening? The patient's ESR is normal. She works at a day care center. Parvovirus B19 infection"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a construction worker that complains of his \hard hat being tighter\\"? CT head reveals thickened skull cortices with mixed lytic and osteoblastic lesions. Paget disease of bone\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female that presents with foot pain? The patient experiences pain and a clicking sensation when the 3rd/4th metatarsal heads are squeezed together. Morton neuroma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged woman with symmetrical proximal muscle weakness and mild muscle pain? There are no dermatologic findings and serum creatine kinase is elevated. Polymyositis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged woman with fatigue and chronic widespread pain with focal areas of tenderness? Serum creatine kinase, ESR, and CRP are within normal limits. Fibromyalgia"
"What pathology is associated with positive anti-Jo-1 (anti-synthetase) and anti-Mi-2 (anti-helicase) titers? polymyositis/dermatomyositis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with joint pain/stiffness in the hands, especially in the DIP joints (pictured below)? Psoriatic arthritis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient with a history of SLE* that presents with progressive hip pain for the past six weeks? The pain is worst with abduction and internal rotation. Avascular necrosis (osteonecrosis)"
"What is the recommended imaging modality for a patient with back pain secondary to suspected malignancy (e.g. nocturnal pain, weight loss)? X-ray"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an asymptomatic elderly male with isolated elevated alkaline phosphatase? Physical exam, including rectal exam, is insignificant. Paget disease of bone"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with arthralgias, fatigue, and painless, palpable purpura on the bilateral legs? Laboratory examination reveals elevated LFTs, evidence of glomerulonephritis (hematuria & proteinuria), and low serum C4. Mixed cryoglobulinemia syndrome"
"What viral infections are commonly associated with mixed cryoglobulinemia syndrome? HCV and HIV"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with hand swelling/stiffness with skin thickening in the fingers (pictured below)? The patient also experiences Raynaud's phenomenon. Systemic sclerosis (Scleroderma)"
"What pathology is associated with anti-topoisomerase I antibodies? Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older woman with pain behind the right heel several days after beginning treatment for a UTI? Achilles tendinopathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult male that presents with asymmetric oligoarthritis and urethral discharge? The patient also complains of pain over the Achilles tendon and mouth ulcers. Reactive arthritis"
"What is the first-line treatment for reactive arthritis? NSAIDs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult male that presents with diffuse enthesitis and lower back pain? The lower back pain is worse at night and improved with activity. Ankylosing spondylitis"
"What valvular defect is associated with ankylosing spondylitis? Aortic regurgitation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of painful arthritis in the fingers and feet that presents to the clinic with the skin findings below? Tophaceous gout"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older woman with unilateral headache, jaw pain, and vision loss? Funduscopy shows a swollen pale disc with blurred margins. ESR is elevated. Giant cell (temporal) arteritis"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with suspected giant cell arteritis? High-dose glucocorticoids"
"Spondyloarthropathies associated with HLA-B27 may be remembered with mnemonic \PAIR\\": P: Psoriasis A: Ankylosing spondylitis I: Inflammatory bowel disease R: Reactive arthritis\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with inflammatory bowel disease that has had the leg ulcer below for 1 month? Pyoderma gangrenosum"
"What imaging modality is initially used to diagnose ankylosing spondylitis? X-ray (of sacroiliac joints)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with two months of progressive left shoulder stiffness? The patient has markedly decreased passive and active abduction, flexion, and rotation of the left shoulder. Adhesive capsulitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older woman that presents with pain/stiffness in the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints? Osteoarthritis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postpartum patient with lateral wrist pain that is worst with ulnar deviation while grasping the thumb? De Quervain tenosynovitis"
"Synovial fluid analysis in patients with pseudogout is characterized by rhomboid-shaped crystals made of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate, that are weakly positively-birefringent"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female with months of progressive achy pain in the anterior right knee? The pain is worsened with running and sitting for an extended period. Patellofemoral pain syndrome"
"What is the initial pharmacologic therapy for treatment of patellofemoral pain syndrome? NSAIDs"
"The initial management for patients with fibromyalgia includes a(n) regular exercise program, patient education, and good sleep hygiene"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older patient with headache, bone pain, and hearing loss? Paget disease of bone (osteitis deformans)"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic therapy for patients with fibromyalgia that do not respond to conservative management? Tricyclic antidepressants (e.g. amitriptyline)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with right-sided neck pain and sensory deficits over the posterior forearm? Physical exam reveals limited neck rotation and lateral bending. Cervical spondylosis"
"What is the most common finding on cervical radiography in patients with cervical spondylosis? Osteophytes"
"Routine monitoring of which organ is necessary for patient's being treated with long-term hydroxychloroquine? Eyes"
"What physical exam test is helpful for diagnosing patellofemoral syndrome? Patellofemoral compression test"
"What is the most sensitive test for the diagnosis of avascular necrosis? MRI"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly male with low-grade fever, arthritis, diarrhea, and generalized lymphadenopathy? Small intestinal biopsy reveals PAS-positive, acid-fast negative macrophages. Whipple's disease"
"What is the recommended treatment for polymyalgia rheumatica? Low-dose glucocorticoids"
"Spondyloarthropathies often result in inflammation at sites of tendon/ligament insertion (enthesitis), leading to gradual onset of low back pain and progressive stiffness"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with symptomatic osteoarthritis despite a supervised exercise program and weight loss? NSAIDs/acetaminophen"
"Common causes of lumbar stenosis include vertebral osteoarthritis, degenerative disc disease, and thickening of the ligamentum flavum"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult male with one month of shortness of breath, nonproductive cough, and fatigue? The patient is hypercalcemic and has bilateral hilar fullness on CXR: Sarcoidosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with symptomatic sarcoidosis? Glucocorticoids"
"What symptom classically arises in patients with Paget disease that affects the temporal bone? Hearing loss"
"What pharmacologic treatment is recommended for patients with symptomatic primary Raynaud's phenomenon? Calcium channel blockers"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with one day of unilateral knee pain/swelling? Laboratory examination reveals significant hypercalcemia. Pseudogout (calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition disease)"
"Felty syndrome classically presents with a triad of rheumatoid arthritis plus splenomegaly and neutropenia"
"What aortic complication is associated with giant cell (temporal) arteritis? Aortic aneurysm"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with back pain after carrying heavy packages? Physical exam reveals paravertebral tenderness. Lumbosacral strain"
"What bladder complications are associated with long-term use of cyclophosphamide? acute hemorrhagic cystitis and bladder carcinoma"
"What is the recommended next step in management for a patient with chronic low back pain despite intermittent use of acetaminophen and NSAIDs? Exercise therapy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of lung cancer that presents with one month of constant low back pain, especially at night? Physical exam reveals local spinal tenderness at L4-L5. Metastatic bone disease"
"Behçet syndrome is characterized by a triad of recurrent aphthous ulcers, as well as genital ulcers and uveitis"
"What vascular complication is a major cause of morbidity in patients with Behçet syndrome? Thrombosis"
"What is the most common extraskeletal complication of ankylosing spondylitis? Anterior uveitis"
"What sickle cell disease complication commonly presents with progressive hip pain and reduced range of motion without fever? Avascular necrosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with bilateral proximal muscle weakness? Physical exam reveals erythematous papules involving the dorsum of his fingers. Dermatomyositis"
"Which region of the spine is most commonly affected by rheumatoid arthritis? Cervical spine"
"What skin rash is commonly found in patients with sarcoidosis? Erythema nodosum"
"What is the recommended screening protocol for osteoporosis? One-time dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA scan) for all women > 65"
"Osteoporosis is defined with a DEXA scan T-score < -2.5"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with elbow pain that worsens with resisted wrist extension and wrist passive flexion? Lateral epicondylitis (\tennis elbow\\")\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a diabetic patient with a severely deformed foot? X-ray shows large osteophytes and several extra-articular bone fragments. Charcot joint (neurogenic arthropathy)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with difficulty rising from a seated position and climbing stairs? The patient also has a violaceous, periorbital rash. Dermatomyositis"
"What is the recommended initial treatment for polymyositis? Oral glucocorticoids"
"How do the following laboratory values change in patients with Paget disease of bone? Serum calcium: No change Serum phosphorus: No change Alkaline phosphatase: Increase Urine hydroxyproline: Increase"
"How do the following laboratory values change in patients with osteoporosis? Serum calcium: No change Serum phosphorus: No change Alkaline phosphatase: No change Urine hydroxyproline: No change"
"What arthritic disorder is associated with hematologic malignancies (e.g. polycythemia vera)? Gout"
"What issue is partially eliminated when using matching during the design of a case-control study? Confounding"
"What bias may arise when the treatment regimen selected for a patient depends on the severity of the patient's condition? Susceptibility bias (a type of selection bias)"
"For a normal distribution, approximately 95% of all values are within 2 standard deviations from the mean"
"Effect modification occurs when an external variable changes the direction or strength of an association between a risk factor and disease"
"What type of bias occurs when the subjects of a study change their behavior because they are aware they are under observation? Hawthorne effect"
"The attributable risk percent can be derived from the relative risk using the formula ARP = (RR - 1)/RR"
"For the results of a study to be statistically significant, the 95% confidence interval must not contain zero or the null value"
"How do the following values change when moving the cutoff point of a screening test from B to A? Sensitivity: increased Specificity: decreased PPV: decreased NPV: increased"
"What type of bias occurs when a new screening test appears to prolong the survival of patients with a poor prognosis disease (e.g. pancreatic cancer)? Lead-time bias"
"What type of study design is characterized by multiple experimental interventions, each with two or more variables that are studied independently? Factorial design"
"What type of bias occurs in prospective studies when there is a large loss to follow-up? Attrition bias (a type of selection bias)"
"At what cut-off value will the number of false negatives be the highest? E"
"What type of study design describes the following study? Researchers identify patients with multidrug-resistant and pansensitive tuberculosis. They then review the patients past records for associated risk factors. Case control"
"What measure of association is typically used in case-control studies? Exposure odds ratio"
"What statistical method is typically used to compare proportions of a categorized outcome? Chi-square"
"The external validity of a study pertains to the applicability of the study results to other populations"
"The most effective interventions to reduce adverse events related to medications at times of transition of care (e.g. between inpatient and outpatient facilities) involve pharmacy personnel and high-risk patients"
"What type of bias/phenomenon occurs when the exposure to a risk factor needs a period of time before a significant outcome is revealed? Latency period"
"In what scenario does the odds ratio of a case-control study closely approximate the relative risk? Low disease incidence and prevalence (\rare disease assumption\\")\""
"What is the approximate sensitivity and specificity (high or low) on the receiver operating characteristic curve below? Sensitivity: high Specificity: low"
"The confidence interval of a study narrows as the sample size increases"
"What study design is best for determining the incidence of disease? Cohort"
"What study design is best for determining the prevalence of disease? Cross-sectional"
"A patient with a high probability of having a disease will have a relatively low negative predictive value"
"What type of study design measures exposure and outcome simultaneously at a particular point in time (\snapshot study\\")? Cross-sectional\""
"What is the next step in management for a patient that complains of foreign body sensation, photophobia, and excessive lacrimation of the right eye? This occurred after the patient was drilling and felt something blow into his eye. Gross examination with a penlight is unrevealing. Fluorescein examination"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with pain, edema, and redness over the medial canthus of the right eye for two days? Slight pressure over the area causes expression of purulent material. Dacryocystitis (infection of the lacrimal sac)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with a red, tender bump on the upper or lower eyelid? Hordeolum (stye)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with sudden onset severe pain in the left eye, accompanied by headache, n/v, blurred vision? The left eye appears red, with a hazy cornea, and mid-dilated, fixed pupil. It is hard to the touch. Acute angle closure glaucoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult male that presents with pain, watering, and redness of the left eye for two days? Examination reveals vesicles and dendritic ulcers in the cornea of the left eye. He has had similar symptoms in the past. Herpes simplex keratitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a diabetic patient that presents with sudden-onset loss of vision in the right eye? Ophthalmoscopy reveals loss of fundus details, floating debris, and a dark red glow. Vitreous hemorrhage"
"What is the underlying pathophysiology in a patient that presents with poor vision for close-up objects (presbyopia)? Decreased lens elasticity"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of asthma that presents with sudden onset redness, watery discharge, and itching of both eyes? The conjunctiva has a \bumpy\\" or granular appearance with diffuse injection. Allergic conjunctivitis\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of poorly controlled HIV that presents with floaters and blurred vision? Funduscopic examination reveals yellow-white exudates adjacent to the fovea and retinal vessels. CMV retinitis"
"What class of autonomic drugs should be avoided in patients with acute angle closure glaucoma? Anti-muscarinics (e.g. atropine)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that wears contacts and presents with sudden-onset eye pain and discharge? On examination, there is thick, globular yellow discharge. The cornea is hazy and ulcerated. Contact lens-associated keratitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of poorly controlled HIV that presents with eye pain, conjunctivitis, keratitis, and vision loss? Funduscopy shows widespread, pale, peripheral retinal lesions and central necrosis of the retina. HSV retinitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a diabetic patient that presents with decreased vision in both eyes? Ophthalmoscopy reveals microaneurysms, dot and blot hemorrhages, hard exudates, and macular edema. Diabetic retinopathy"
"What is the suggested treatment to prevent complications of proliferative diabetic retinopathy? Argon laser photocoagulation"
"Primary open angle glaucoma is characterized by gradual loss of peripheral vision and pathologic cupping of the optic disc on ophthalmoscopy"
"Macular degeneration is characterized by gradual loss of central vision"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient that presents with gradual onset blurred vision, glare, and difficulty driving at night for two months? The patient also complains of seeing halos around lights. Cataract"
"What is the initial treatment for external hordeolum (stye)? Warm compresses"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with progressive vision loss over several months? When the patient is asked to look at a small spot on a grid made of vertical and horizontal lines, he describes the vertical lines as bent and wavy. Macular degeneration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with sudden loss of vision in the left eye? Funduscopic examination reveals swelling of the optic disc, retinal hemorrhages, dilated and tortuous veins, and cotton wool spots. Central retinal vein occlusion"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with \floating spots\\" and blurred vision in the right eye? Several weeks ago"
"What is the gold standard tool for diagnosis of acute angle closure glaucoma? gonioscopy or tonometry"
"What is the initial treatment for central retinal artery occlusion? Ocular massage and high-flow O2 administration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a gritty sensation and watery discharge from the right eye for 3 days? The patient also has rhinorrhea, mild sore throat, and low-grade fever. Eye examination reveals conjunctival injection. Viral conjunctivitis"
"What is the recommended treatment for viral conjunctivitis? Warm or cold compresses + antihistamine/decongestant drops"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that woke up with a \red eye\\" (pictured below)? He does not complain of any symptoms. Observation\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 70-year-old man that complains of difficulty hearing and bilateral tinnitus? He has difficulty hearing in noisy, crowded environments. Presbycusis"
"What anti-hypertensive medication is associated with hearing loss? Loop diuretics (e.g. furosemide)"
"Aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease typically presents with a triad of asthma, chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps, and bronchospasm after ingestion of aspirin/NSAIDs"
"What type of hearing loss is suggested by the hearing test results below in a patient with left-sided hearing loss? Rinne: bone > air conduction in the left ear; air > bone in the right Weber: lateralizes to the left ear Conductive hearing loss (left)"
"What type of hearing loss occurs with otosclerosis? Conductive hearing loss"
"What type of hearing loss typically occurs with ototoxic antibiotics (e.g. aminoglycosides)? Sensorineural hearing loss"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with right-sided ear pain that increases in severity when chewing food? The patient has nocturnal teeth grinding. Physical examination is normal. Temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMJ)"
"Sialadenosis is a benign, non-inflammatory enlargement of the salivary glands"
"Sialadenosis is often seen in patients with malnutrition or advanced liver disease"
"What is the recommended initial treatment for patients with allergic rhinitis? Intranasal glucocorticoids"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a three day history of fever and sore throat that develops difficulty swallowing and a muffled voice? Physical exam reveals left-sided cervical lymphadenopathy with rightward deviation of the uvula. Peritonsillar abscess (quinsy)"
"What is the recommended treatment for peritonsillar abscess? incision & drainage and IV antibiotics"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient that presents with worsening severe left-sided ear pain with an edematous auditory canal and purulent discharge and granulation tissue visible on otoscopic exam? Malignant (necrotizing) otitis externa"
"What is the recommended treatment for malignant (necrotizing) otitis externa? IV ciprofloxacin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a significant smoking and drinking history that presents with a granular, non-indurated lesion on the buccal mucosa (pictured below)? The lesion is not removed by scraping with a tongue depressor. Leukoplakia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a healthcare worker that presents with itchy, dry skin on the hands for the past month? Examination shows dry and irritated skin with erythema at the fingers, finger webs, and dorsum of the hands (pictured below). Irritant contact dermatitis"
"The PPSV23 pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine induces immunization via a(n) T-cell independent B-cell response (mechanism)"
"The PCV13 conjugate polysaccharide vaccine induces immunization via a(n) T-cell dependent B-cell response (mechanism)"
"What immunosuppressive agent has side effects including nephrotoxicity, hyperkalemia, gingival hypertrophy, and hirsuitism? Cyclosporine"
"The major toxicity/side effect associated with mycophenolate is bone marrow suppression"
"The major toxicities/side effects associated with azathioprine are dose-related diarrhea::GI, hepato::organ-toxicity, and leukopenia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 50-year-old male that presents with fever, chills, dysuria, and perineal pain? Rectal examination shows a boggy, tender prostate. Urinalysis is positive for leukocyte esterase. Acute bacterial prostatitis"
"Empiric antibiotic therapy for acute bacterial prostatitis consists of TMP-SMX or a(n) fluoroquinolone for a duration of 4 - 6 weeks"
"What is the next step in management for a male that presents with a painless, hard mass in his testicle and ultrasound imaging consistent with a testicular tumor? Radical orchiectomy"
"PDE-5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil) can cause significant hypotension, especially in patients taking alpha blockers or nitrates"
"What is the first-line treatment for most patients with erectile dysfunction? PDE-5 inhibitors (e.g. sildenafil)"
"Which anti-depressant medication is associated with priapism? Trazodone"
"What is the preferred initial treatment for uncomplicated benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)? Alpha-1 blockers (e.g. terazosin, tamsulosin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged man that presents with progressive urinary frequency, urgency and hesitancy for the past several months with chronic pelvic pain and pain with ejaculation? Urine culture is negative. chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS)"
"What is the likely etiology of urinary retention in an elderly male that presents with nocturia and problems initiating micturition for the past few weeks? Straight catheterization of the bladder produces 500 mL of urine. Enlarged prostate (e.g. BPH or prostate carcinoma)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman with a history of two miscarriages and the laboratory values below? VDRL: positive FTA-ABS: negative PT: 12s (normal) PTT: 46s (high) Antiphospholipid antibody syndrome"
"Pregnant women with antiphospholipid syndrome should receive low-dose aspirin and LMWH to avoid pregnancy loss related to arterial and venous thrombosis"
"What is the next step in management for an elderly woman that presents with urinary incontinence for the past week? The patient is delirious. History and physical exam are unremarkable. Urinalysis and culture"
"What is the single most important prognostic consideration in the treatment of patients with breast cancer? Tumor burden (based on TNM staging)"
"Baseline cardiac function should be assessed prior to initiating trastuzumab in patients with HER-2 positive breast cancer"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with bilateral, non-focal breast tenderness and diffuse, cord-like thickening of the breasts with no discharge? Her last menstrual period was three weeks ago. Fibrocystic change"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops confusion, agitation, diaphoresis, and tremors three days after being admitted to the hospital following a motor vehicle accident? Physical exam reveals tachycardia, tachypnea, and hypertension. Delirium tremens"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient brought to the ED with severe agitation and combativeness? Urine toxicology is negative. The patient is admitted and remained psychotic for one week before symptoms subsided. Bath salts intoxication"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that experiences sleep difficulties with “normal” bed times resulting in sleep-onset insomnia and daytime sleepiness? Delayed sleep phase disorder"
"What anti-emetic agents may cause extraparkinsonian symptoms (e.g. acute dystonia) as a possible side effect? metoclopramide and prochlorperazine::2"
"What is the likely diagnosis in person with a history of poorly controlled HIV (CD4 < 200) that presents with changes in personality and bizarre behavior? The patient also appears to have impaired attention and calculation. Brain MRI reveals a diffuse increase in intensity in the white matter. HIV-associated neurocognitive dysfunction"
"In addition to statin therapy, what is the recommended management for a patient with known cardiovascular disease and a triglyceride level of 465 mg/dL (high)? Lifestyle modifications (e.g. weight loss, exercise, decreased alcohol intake)"
"How do the following renal findings change in a patient with hypovolemia secondary to gallstone pancreatitis? Renin secretion: Increase Efferent arteriolar resistance: Increase Tubular Na+ reabsorption: Increase"
"What are the recommended screening guidelines for mammogram in patients with average risk of breast cancer? mammogram every 2 years in women age 50-74"
"What are the recommended screening guidelines for pap smear in patients with average risk of cervical cancer? Pap smear every 3 years in women age 21-65"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a military recruit that collapses during training exercises on a hot, humid day? The patient is disoriented and has a fever of 105.8 F, and is bleeding from the nose. Exertional heat stroke"
"Exertional heat stroke occurs in healthy individuals undergoing conditioning in extreme heat/humidity due to thermoregulation failure"
"Antidotes for cyanide poisoning include hydroxycobalamin (preferred) or sodium thiosulfate; alternatively nitrites may be used to induce methemoglobinemia"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents with drooling and retrosternal/epigastric pain after ingesting sodium hydroxide (lye)? The patient has been decontaminated and is hemodynamically stable with a normal CXR. Endoscopy"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents after ingesting twenty acetaminophen tablets two hours ago? Physical exam and laboratory studies, including LFTs, are normal. administer activated charcoal and measure serum acetaminophen levels"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a group of individuals that present with headache, nausea/vomiting, and confusion after eating at an indoor barbecue? Physical examination of one patient reveals tachycardia, tachypnea, and pinkish-skin hue. Carbon monoxide poisoning"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with confusion and blurry vision after overdosing on an unknown medication? Physical examination reveals dry mucous membranes, decreased bowel sounds, and 8 mm pupils bilaterally. Anticholinergic toxicity"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with heavy drooling, dysphagia, and a white tongue after being found next to an empty bottle of an unknown substance? Caustic ingestion"
"What medication is administered to patients with suspected TCA toxicity to improve the effects of cardiac toxicity (e.g. hypotension, prolonged QRS interval, arrhythmia)? Sodium bicarbonate"
"What medication is administered to treat seizures in patients with suspected TCA toxicity? Benzodiazepines"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an automobile mechanic that presents with constipation, increased forgetfulness/fatigue, and peripheral neuropathy? Laboratory studies reveal microcytic anemia and hyperuricemia. Lead poisoning"
"What is the treatment of choice for acute opioid withdrawal? Low-dose methadone and adjunctive medications for symptoms"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with progressive worsening peripheral neuropathy? Physical exam reveals areas of hyper- and hypopigmentation, as well as hyperkeratosis. LFTs are also elevated with pancytopenia. The patient restores antique furniture as a hobby. Arsenic poisoning (chronic)"
"What is the treatment for arsenic toxicity? Chelating agents, such as dimercaprol or DMSA"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a homeless patient that presents with confusion, epigastric pain, and blurred vision? Laboratory studies reveal anion gap metabolic acidosis and eye examination shows a hyperemic optic disc. Methanol poisoning"
"What is the most common cause of death in patients with TCA overdose? Cardiac toxicity (e.g. ventricular arrhythmias)"
"Sodium bicarbonate alleviates the cardiotoxicity associated with TCA overdose by decreasing TCAs ability to bind fast-acting Na+ channels"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a homeless patient that presents with confusion, flank pain, and hematuria? Laboratory studies show anion gap metabolic acidosis and urine microscopy reveals calcium oxalate crystals. Ethylene glycol poisoning"
"What antidote is frequently used to treat methanol and/or ethylene glycol poisoning? Fomepizole"
"What is the recommended initial management of frostbite? Rapid rewarming with warm water"
"What is the recommended treatment for anticholinergic poisoning? Physostigmine (cholinesterase inhibitor)"
"What is the next step in management for an unresponsive patient that presents with respiratory depression and decreased bowel sounds? The patient smells of alcohol. Physical examination reveals 3 mm pupils bilaterally and a respiratory rate of 5/minute. Naloxone"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a gunshot wound in the right thigh? The right lower extremity is cool to the touch and distal pulses are feeble. Urgent surgical exploration"
"β-blockers are contraindicated in acute cocaine intoxication Treatment? Benzodiazepines (alleviate psychomotor agitation and sympathomimetic effects)"
"Where is the pain in Osgood-Schlatter disease felt? Pain at the tibial tubercle (seen with adolescent athletes)"
"BUN is reabsorbed when the kidneys reabsorb water"
"In acute prerenal failure, BUN::BUN/Creatinine rises relatively more"
"What type of acute renal failure has a large increase in BUN/Cr ratio? Prerenal failure"
"What type of acute renal failure has a normal BUN/Cr ratio? Intrinsic renal failure"
"What are the key features used to diagnose postrenal failure? (2) Anuria Hydronephrosis"
"What are the two most common causes of chronic kidney disease? Hypertensive nephrosclerosis Diabetes nephropathy"
"Osteitis fibrosa cystica occurs due to untreated severe high PTH, causing bone cysts and brown tumors"
"In Osteitis Fibrosa Cystica, there are brown tumors"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient that presents with insomnia, agitation, paranoid delusions, and fluctuating level of consciousness a few days after having surgery? Delirium"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with a history of ADHD that presents with two weeks of decreased sleep, irritability, distractibility, and excessive involvement in new projects? Bipolar disorder"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly male that presents after months of agitated behavior/moving around in his sleep in the early morning hours? The patient is easily arousable and confused for only a few moments after awakening. He describes a recurrent dream where he feels trapped. REM sleep behavior disorder"
"In older patients, REM sleep behavior disorder may be a sign of neurodegeneration (e.g. Parkinson’s disease)"
"What is the recommended maintenance pharmacotherapy for a patient with bipolar disorder that is not adequately controlled with monotherapy? lithium or valproate and a second-generation antipsychotic (e.g. quetiapine)"
"What laboratory tests are most important to monitor in patients taking second-generation antipsychotics (e.g. olanzapine)? Fasting glucose and lipid levels"
"What is the recommended pharmacotherapy for a patient with a history of alcohol abuse that requests a medication to reduce cravings? He is currently drinking 6-7 beers a day. There is no evidence of hepatitis, cirrhosis, and patient does not take opioids. Naltrexone"
"The DSM-5 criteria for generalized anxiety disorder include: A. Excessive anxiety and worry for at least 6 months::time B. Difficult controlling the worry. C. At least three of the following symptoms: - Restlessness - Fatigue - Difficulty concentrating - Irritability - Muscle tension - Sleep disturbance D. Clinically significant distress or impairment E./F. Not better explained by another medical condition, mental disorder, or substance"
"Blockage of which dopamine pathway is responsible for symptoms of gynecomastia, sexual dysfunction, and infertility in patients taking antipsychotics? Tuberoinfundibular pathway"
"Blockage of which dopamine pathway is responsible for the therapeutic effect of antipsychotics? Mesolimbic pathway"
"Major neurocognitive disorder (dementia) may be distinguished from normal aging by dependence on others for activities of daily living (ADLs)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that experiences two-weeks of insomnia, nightmares, and flashbacks after seeing a traumatic event? Acute stress disorder"
"What is the first-line treatment for patients with acute stress disorder? Trauma-focused CBT"
"What drug withdrawal presents with nausea, muscle/joint aches, diarrhea, abdominal cramping, and pupillary dilation? Heroin (opioid) withdrawal"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with periods of binge eating, followed by guilt, depression, and excessive fasting/exercise? Physical exam is unremarkable. Her BMI is 19.5 kg/m2. Bulimia nervosa"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with periods of binge eating, followed by guilt, depression, and excessive fasting/exercise? Physical exam is unremarkable. Her BMI is 18.0 kg/m2. Anorexia nervosa"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with periods of binge eating with no compensatory behavior? Physical exam is unremarkable. Her BMI is 30 kg/m2. Binge eating disorder"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with bipolar disorder that develops confusion, tremors, ataxia, vomiting, and seizures two weeks after beginning atenolol and hydrochlorothiazide? Lithium toxicity"
"What class of antihypertensive medication increases risk for lithium toxicity? Thiazide diuretics"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that believes someone has been trying to poison her food for the past 6 months? As a result, the patient refuses to eat any food that is not pre-packaged. The patient is otherwise normal, with no social dysfunction and no other psychotic symptoms. Delusional disorder"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops agitation and visual hallucinations 12 hours after hospitalization? Vital signs are within normal limits. The patient has a history of cocaine, marijuana, and alcohol abuse. Alcoholic hallucinosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young male that presents with several months of agitation and irritability? On physical exam, the patient has a receding hair line and palpable tissue underneath the nipples bilaterally. Anabolic steroid abuse"
"What is the like diagnosis in a young woman that presents with irritability, weight loss, and decreased sleep? The patient says she has lots of energy and isn't eating because she's not hungry. Physical exam reveals erythema of the turbinates and nasal septum. BMI is 19.5 kg/m2. Cocaine use disorder"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a long history of schizoaffective disorder that presents with lip smacking, sticking out his tongue, and squirming movements of the torso? Tardive dyskinesia"
"What is the likely underlying pathophysiologic mechanism of tardive dyskinesia? D2 receptor upregulation and supersensitivity"
"What eye exam finding is characteristic of phencyclidine intoxication? Nystagmus"
"Compared to PCP, the effects of methamphetamine generally last longer::shorter or longer"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient being treated in the psychiatric ER that develops confusion, high-grade fever, autonomic instability, and muscle rigidity? Neuroleptic malignant syndrome"
"What muscular symptom is associated with neuroleptic malignant syndrome? Lead-pipe rigidity"
"Diagnosis of a manic episode requires an elevated and/or irritable mood lasting at least 1 week and more than three \DIG FAST\\" criteria: D: Distractibility I: Impulsivity (high-risk behaviors) G: Grandiosity (inflated self-esteem) F: Flight of ideas/racing thoughts A: Agitation/increased Activity S: Sleeplessness T: Talkativeness or pressured speech\""
"The DSM-5 criteria for bipolar I disorder include: A. Criteria have been met for at least one manic episode B. The symptoms cause social/occupational distress or impairment C. Not better explained by another medical condition, mental disorder, or substance"
"The DSM-5 criteria for bipolar II disorder include: A. Criteria have been met for at least one major depressive episode B. Criteria have been met for at least one hypomanic episode C. No history of manic or mixed episodes D. Not better explained by another medical condition, mental disorder, or substance E. The symptoms cause social/occupational distress or impairment"
"Major depressive disorder is characterized by at least four \SIG E CAPS\\" symptoms PLUS a(n) depressed mood or anhedonia for ≥ 2 weeks: S: Sleep changes I: Interest decreases (anhedonia) G: Guilt or feelings of worthlessness E: Energy loss or fatigue C: Concentration deficit A: Appetite/weight changes P: Psychomotor retardation or agitation S: Suicidality\""
"The DSM-5 criteria for major depressive disorder include: A. At least five SIG E CAPS symptoms for > 2 weeks (time); one symptom must be depressed mood or anhedonia B. The symptoms cause social/occupational distress or impairment C/D. Not better explained by another medical condition, mental disorder, or substance E. No history of manic or hypomanic episodes"
"What drug withdrawal presents with acute depression (\crash\\")"
"The DSM-5 criteria for adjustment disorder include: A. Emotional or behavioral symptoms in response to an identifiable, non-life threatening stressor occurring within 3 months* of the onset of the stressor B. Marked distress out of proportion to the stressor or significant impairment in social or occupational functioning C/D. Symptoms do not meet the criteria for another mental disorder or represent normal bereavement E. Once the stressor ceases, the symptoms do not persist for more than an additional 6 months::time"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops seizures, tremulousness, diaphoresis, and autonomic instability one day after having an emergency surgery? Alcohol withdrawal"
"What is the preferred pharmacotherapy for alcohol withdrawal in the hospital setting? IV lorazepam (benzodiazepine)"
"What type of therapy is most useful for a patient that presents with maladaptive thought patterns and behaviors (e.g. negatively interpreting events)? Cognitive behavioral therapy"
"What type of therapy is most useful for a patient that presents with borderline personality disorder? Dialectical behavioral therapy"
"What drug intoxication commonly causes agitation, irritability, psychosis, diaphoresis, and mydriasis without nystagmus for several hours? Amphetamines"
"What are the first-line pharmacotherapy options to reduce cravings during smoking cessation? Nicotine replacement therapy, varenicline, and bupropion"
"What psychiatric disorder is characterized by a preoccupation with a minor or imagined defect in appearance, causing significant emotional distress or impaired functioning? Body dysmorphic disorder"
"Diagnosis of panic disorder requires recurrent & unexpected panic attacks with at least one month::duration of preoccupations with the attack"
"What is the recommended immediate treatment for patients with panic disorder that are acutely symptomatic? Benzodiazepines"
"What is the recommended long-term treatment for patients with panic disorder? CBT and/or SSRIs"
"The primary cause of neuroleptic malignant syndrome is antagonism of dopamine (D2) receptors in the nigrostriatal pathway"
"What is the recommended next step in management in assessing a patient with suspected premenstrual syndrome (PMS)? Menstrual diary"
"What is the recommended first-line treatment for severe premenstrual syndrome and premenstrual dysphoric disorder? SSRIs (after evaluation with menstrual diary)"
"Persistent depressive disorder (dysthymia) is characterized by > 2 depressive symptoms for ≥ 2 years::duration with no lapses in depressive symptoms for > 2 months::duration at a time"
"What is catalepsy and echolalia, and what syndrome is characterized by both? Catalepsy → limbs remain in fixed posture for long periods of time Echolalia → mimicking speech Catatonia::syndrome?"
"What is the treatment of choice for patients that present with catatonia? First-line is benzodiazepines; 2nd line is ECT"
"Separation anxiety is normal in children age 9 - 18 months and again during times of transition (e.g. beginning preschool)"
"Management of akathisia secondary to antipsychotic medications includes decreasing the dose of the antipsychotic and administration of a(n) β-blocker, a(n) benzodiazepine, or benztropine"
"What is the next step in management for an elderly patient with major depression with psychotic features that has lost a significant amount of weight and is refusing to eat/drink? Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)"
"Indications for involuntary psychiatric hospitalization including being a(n) danger to self or others and/or grave disability (inability to care for self)"
"What is the treatment of choice for treatment-resistant schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder? Clozapine"
"Patients taking clozapine require regular monitoring of white blood cell and absolute neutrophil counts"
"The DSM-5 criteria for somatic symptom disorder include: A. One or more somatic symptoms that are distressing or result in significant disruption of daily life B. Excessive thoughts or behaviors related to the somatic symptoms C. Duration > 6 months::time"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents with severe mania (psychotic features, aggression, harm of self or others)? Administer an antipsychotic +/- a mood stabilizer"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a previously healthy individual that presents with anxiety, irritability, and insomnia, as well as abdominal pain and paresthesias of the right hand? Acute intermittent porphyria"
"Diagnosis of acute intermittent porphyria may be aided by the presence of elevated urinary porphobilinogen"
"What is the recommended treatment for bereaved patients who meet criteria for major depressive disorder? Psychotherapy Antidepressants"
"What early childhood disorder is characterized by deficits in social communication & interactions and restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior? Autism spectrum disorder"
"Brief psychotic disorder is characterized by symptoms of schizophrenia lasting > 1 day and < 1 month"
"Schizophreniform disorder is characterized by symptoms of schizophrenia lasting between 1 - 6 months"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with symmetric resting tremor in both hands, muscle stiffness, and slow finger movements? The patient has a history of bipolar disorder controlled with valproate and risperidone. Drug-induced parkinsonism"
"Management of acute dystonia secondary to antipsychotic medications includes administration of a(n) anticholinergic (e.g. benztropine) or a(n) antihistamine (e.g. diphenhydramine)"
"Management of Parkinsonism secondary to antipsychotic medications includes administration of benztropine or amantadine"
"The risk factors for suicide completion may be remembered with the mnemonic \SAD PERSONS\\": S: Sex (male) A: Age (teenage or elderly) D: Depression P: Previous attempt (highest risk factor) E: Ethanol or drug use R: Rational thinking impaired (psychosis) S: Sickness (medical illness) O: Organized plan N: No spouse or other social support S: {{c10::Stated future intent\""
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for narcolepsy? Modafinil (non-amphetamine stimulant)"
"Which eating disorder, bulimia or anorexia nervosa, may be effectively treated with SSRIs? Bulimia nervosa"
"What is the first-line treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)? CBT (trauma-focused) and SSRIs/SNRIs"
"Patients < 25 years old have a slightly increased risk of becoming suicidal when initiating antidepressant treatment"
"What is the FENa in patients with prerenal azotemia? < 1%"
"What is the FENa in patients with intrinsic renal failure? > 2%"
"The osmolarity of urine in patients with prerenal azotemia will be high::low/high"
"The osmolarity of urine in patients with intrinsic renal azotemia will be low::low/high"
"What are the dialyzable drugs/toxins? INH/isopropyl alcohol Salicyclates Theophylline Uremia Methanol Barbiturates Lithium Ethylene glycol Dabigatran"
"Both hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis require vascular access F (Only hemodialysis requires vascular access)::T/F"
"Rapid Diagnosis Rapidly progressive dementia and myoclonus, sharp wave complexes on EEG Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (dead within year)"
"Rapid Diagnosis: Acute change in mental status, low respiration, pupils <1 mm Acute opioid intoxication (tx with naloxone)"
"What is the treatment of choice for patient's with a specific phobia? CBT with exposure (flooding and desensitization)"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)? Stimulants (e.g. methylphenidate, amphetamines)"
"HIV-associated dementia is associated with subcortical::brain area? symptoms early in the course of illness"
"The DSM-5 criteria for schizoaffective disorder include: A. Presence of a major depressive, manic, or mixed episode concurrent with symptoms of schizophrenia B. Lifetime history of delusions or hallucinations for > 2 weeks::duration in the absence of prominent mood symptoms C. Mood symptoms are present for the majority of the illness D. Not due to substances or another medical condition"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? SSRIs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that frequently wakes up screaming in the middle of the night with full alertness? The child is easily consolable and recalls a scary dream. Nightmare disorder"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with agitation, insomnia, paranoid delusions, and tactile hallucinations (bugs under skin)? On physical exam, the patient appears thin and has poor dentition and multiple sores on his face and body. Methamphetamine abuse"
"What is the likely ingested substance in a patient that attempted suicide by overdose that presents with hypotension, seizures, mydriasis, dry, flushed skin, and QRS prolongation? Tricyclic antidepressants"
"In patients with TCA overdose, a QRS duration > 100 msec is associated with increased risk of arrhythmias and/or seizures and is an indication for treatment with sodium bicarbonate"
"What is the treatment of choice to prevent adverse cardiac effects in patients with suspected TCA overdose? Sodium bicarbonate"
"Pediatric depression often presents with symptoms of irritability rather than depressed mood"
"What is the pharmacotherapy of choice in pediatric depression patients? SSRIs, especially fluoxetine"
"What is the treatment of choice for hoarding disorder? Cognitive-behavioral therapy"
"What type of cognitive-behavioral therapy is best for treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? Exposure with response prevention"
"What is the treatment of choice for adjustment disorder? Psychotherapy/CBT"
"What is the greatest risk factor for committing homicide in adolescents? Access to firearms"
"Prior to beginning lithium therapy, patients should be screened to ensure adequate thyroid and renal function"
"Which mood stabilizer is associated with elevated LFTs, and rarely, hepatic failure? Valproic acid"
"What pharmacologic treatments may be used to treat patients with suicidal intentions/ideations? Clozapine or lithium::2"
"What psychiatric disorder is characterized by an inability to resist the impulse to steal objects, often of low monetary value or not needed for personal use? Kleptomania"
"What neuroimaging finding is most consistently found in patients with schizophrenia? Ventriculomegaly (particularly of the lateral cerebral ventricles) and cortical atrophy"
"Major depressive disorder is associated with increased levels of cortisol."
"What is the first-line treatment for major depressive disorder with psychotic features? Antidepressant and antipsychotic (or ECT)"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for patients with acute psychosis? First or second-generation antipsychotics"
"Which antidepressant is likely to be useful for patients with primary complaints of low energy, impaired concentration, hypersomnia, and weight gain? Bupropion"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that requires antipsychotics, but develops tardive dyskinesia while taking risperidone? Switch to clozapine"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents with unstable vital signs and hypokalemia secondary to suspected anorexia nervosa? Hospitalization for nutritional rehabilitation"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with recurrent episodes of psychosis due to medication non-adherence? The patient responds well to oral antipsychotics. Long-acting injectable (depot) antipsychotics"
"What is the likely underlying cause of psychosis in a young female that presents with psychosis and arthralgia? Laboratory findings include thrombocytopenia and hematuria. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)"
"According to the DSM-5, pathological enuresis cannot be diagnosed until the patient is at least 5-years-old (or equivalent developmental level)"
"According to the DSM-5, pathological encopresis cannot be diagnosed until the patient is at least 4-years-old (or equivalent developmental level)"
"What are the two absolute contraindications to non-cardiac surgery? EF < 35% MI within 6 months"
"Goldman Risk Index "
"What three tests should be performed prior to surgery on pt. w/ cardiac complications? ECG Echo Cath"
"The problem with the lungs prior to surgery will be ventilation::ventilation/oxygenation"
"What is the first step in working up a pt. w/ pulmonary disease (e.g. smoker, COPD, fibrotic lung, asthmatic)? PFTs (FEV1/FVC)"
"What is the next step in working up a patient with prexisting pulmonary disease after FEV1/FVC? Blood gases Low O2 or high CO2 is bad"
"When should smoking cessation commence prior to surgery? 8 weeks before surgery (b/c congestion initially worsens)"
"Fever after anesthesia (halothane, succinylcholine) or fever > 104: Malignant hyperthermia::Diagnosis?"
"How do you treat malignant hyperthermia? Administer O2, cooling blankets, dantrolene, and watch for myoglobinuria::4"
"What is a fever on the first day postop? Atelectasis"
"What imaging do you do first if you suspect atelectasis? CXR"
"A fever on the second day, especially if atelectasis wasn't fixed, can turn into pneumonia"
"What is the work up for pneumonia? CXR, ABx"
"What is the prophylaxis for atelectasis/pneumonia? Incentive spirometry/OOB"
"What is postop fever on day 3 dx? UTI"
"What is the tx of UTI postop fever? U/A, Abx"
"What is the dx of fever of postop on day 5? DVT"
"What is the tx of DVT (postop fever day 5)? U/S, heparin"
"What is prophylaxis for DVT (day 5 fever)? Ambulation, heparin"
"What is cause of postop day 7 fever? Wound infection"
"What is tx of wound infection (day 7 fever) U/S, Abx"
"What is prophylaxis for wound infection? Good closure and wound care"
"What is cause of fever > day 10 postop? Wound abscess"
"What is the workup for deep abscess > 10 days postop (imaging, treatment)? CT/Drain/Abx"
"What surgeries are highest risk of DVT's? Orthopedic"
"How do you anticoagulate DVT patients? LMWH bridge to warfarin"
"What tests should be ordered to workup post-op chest pain? (2) ECG, troponin"
"What is the tx of post-op MI? PCI/Heparin"
"How do you definitively dx a PE? CT angiogram"
"What is tx for pulmonary embolism? Heparin for ppx/bridge to Coumadin Greenfield filter if anticoag is CI"
"How do you treat ARDS postop? PEEP on ventilator"
"When do you suspect ARDS postop (imaging, background)? CXR => whiteout, complicated surgical course"
"What do you suspect if elderly pt. has psychosis/AMS postop? sundowning"
"What do you suspect if pt. is having seizures/psychotic/hallucinating 48-72 hrs postop? Delirium tremens"
"How do you treat DT's postop? Benzos"
"How do you treat sundowning in elderly with AMS? Atypical antipsychotics"
"What is tx for postop urinary retention? In and out catheter after 6 hours of not voiding"
"What is dx if pt. has zero output postop? mechanical obstruction"
"What is tx of zero output postop? Unkink catheter and urine will flow"
"What is the differential with low output urine flow postop? Prerenal failure or intrinsic renal failure"
"What is initial test for low output urine postop? 500cc bolus challenge"
"What is presentation of paralytic illeus postop? Distension, obstipated x 1 day, no pain"
"What is seen in KUB with paralytic illeus? Diffuse enlargement of small and large bowel"
"Bowel obstruction appears when paralytic ileus hasn't resolved in 5-7 days"
"How does bowel obstruction present on KUB? Air-fluid levels with decompressed bowel beyond the obstruction"
"What is done following KUB to confirm bowel obstruction? Contrast swallow CT to see if tracer material passes the obstruction"
"Ogilvie syndrome::What disease? is a paralytic ileus of the colon that occurs in elderly pts immobilized post-op"
"What will be seen on KUB of Ogilvie syndrome? Very dilated colon only"
"What is done in pts suspected of Ogilvie syndrome to rule out cancer and decompress the abdomen? Colonoscopy and rectal tube::2"
"Dehiscence::What wound abnormality? occurs when the skin is intact but the fascia has failed"
"How do you treat wound dehiscence? Bind the abdomen and limit mvmt/straining"
"Evisceration occurs when both the skin and fascia fail with increased IA pressure"
"What is the tx for evsiceration? Cover bowel with warm dressings and get back to OR now"
"Fistulas are defined as a connection between 2 epithelialized surfaces"
"What is the tx of fistulas? Remove fistula or divert bowel so fistula can close on its own"
"What causes prehepatic jaundice? (2) Hemolysis Hematomas"
"What causes intrahepatic jaundice? Hepatitis/genetic disease"
"What causes post-hepatic disease? (5) Gallstones, pancreatic cancer, PBC, PSC, stricture"
"What labs are associated with prehepatic jaundice? Increased unconjugated bilirubin"
"What is more elevated in EtOH hepatitis? AST>ALT"
"How does urine/stool appear in obstructive jaundice? Dark urine; pale stool"
"Diagnosis in pt who is jaundiced/pruitus with palpable nontender GB? Cancer"
"What is Murphy's sign dx of? A tender GB"
"What does a thin-walled distended GB free of inflammation on U/S indicate when working up jaundice? Cancer"
"What does a thick-walled rigid (porcelain) GB indicate in US? Chronic inflammation"
"What is the diagnostic method for obstructive jaundice secondary to inflammation from choledocholithiasis/cholangitis? RUQ U/S with MRCP/ERCP"
"How do you tx gallstone? ERCP"
"What is seen on U/S of GB in pt. with choledocholithiasis? Mild duct dilation, gallstones in GB"
"What 3 tumors can present w/ painless jaundice, palpable GB, and weight loss? Pancreatic (adeno from head), cholangiocarcinoma, ampulla of vater"
"First step for diagnosing pancreatic cancer? CT scan"
"Cholangiocarcinoma is dx with ERCP w/ bx"
"What cancer presents with FOBT+ with negative colonoscopy? Ampulla of vater"
"What is tx of pancreatic head cancer? Whipple procedure"
"What is the typical pain of GERD? Burning retrosternal chest pain"
"What is the pathophysiology of GERD? Weakened LES allows reflux of gastric contents"
"What is 1st line tx of GERD? PPI"
"When is an EGD done for GERD? Only when PPIs fail/there are alarm symptoms"
"What is the best diagnostic test for GERD, but is rarely done? 24hr-pH monitoring"
"What is tx if metaplastic changes are seen on EGD? High-dose PPI"
"What is tx if dysplastic changes are seen on EGD? Local ablation methods"
"What is tx of esophageal cancer (adeno)? Resection"
"What is surgical tx of GERD if PPI's are not tolerated or pt. doesnt want them? Nissen fundoplication"
"What is pathophys of achalasia? LES cannot relax"
"What is bird's beak deformity indicative of on barium swallow? Achalasia"
"How is dx of achalasia made? Barium swallow (Bird beak) and manometry"
"What is definitive dx method of achalsia? Manometry (tight LES)"
"What is seen on manometry in achalasia? Failure to relax"
"What is best tx of achalasia? Heller myotomy"
"What is the diagnosis if patient presents with dysphagia progressing from solids to liquids and weight loss? Cancer"
"Where is esophageal adeno found and what is cause? Lower 1/3, GERD"
"Where is esophageal SCC found and what is cause? Upper 1/3, smoking/irritation"
"What is done 1st in workup of esophageal cancer to identify location of lesions/safety of EGD? Barium swallow"
"How do you confirm dx of esophageal cancer following barium swallow? EGD w/ biopsy"
"How is esophageal cancer staged? CT scan"
"What is a superficial mucosal tear of esophagus that occurs after forceful retching, usually at GE junction? Mallory-Weiss tear"
"How does a Mallory-Weiss tear present? Bright red bleeding which resolves spontaneously"
"What is tx for Mallory-Weiss tear? Nothing; treat GI bleed if it is still bleeding"
"What is an esophageal perforation caused by prolonged retching? Boerhaave"
"What is the pathogenesis of Boerhaave syndrome? Esophageal perforation caused by prolonged retching"
"What is pt. presentation in Boerhaave? Fever Leukocytosis Hamman's crunch (air in mediastinum heard with each heartbeat)::3"
"The workup for Boerhaave syndrome includes the following: Initial imaging → CXR Confirmatory imaging → Gastrografin swallow or CT::2 Surgical treatment → exploratory thoracotomy (fix tear)"
"What is tx of Boerhaave syndrome? Surgical repair is definitive"
"What is MCC of esophageal perforation? Iatrogenic"
"What is tx of an esophageal perforation? Surgical repair; tx like boerhaave"
"What are the most common causes of pancreatitis? (2) Gallstones and EtOH"
"What is presentation of pancreatitis? Boring epigastric pain radiating to the back, typically after heavy meal/EtOH"
"What position relieves pancreatitis pain? Leaning forward"
"What enzymes are elevated in pancreatitis? Lipase or amylase"
"What is tx of acute pancreatits? Bowel rest, fluids, and analgesia (IVF+ NPO+morphine)"
"What is the single most prognostic lab for pancreatitis? BUN"
"What do you order if dx of pancreatitis is certain AND enzymes are negative? CT scan"
"What is used to dx complications of pancreatitis but should be reserved until after complications are seen? CT scan"
"What is dx of acute pancreatitis with poor Ranson's criteria or needs pressors? Necrotizing pancreatitis"
"What do you do if pt. presents with severe acute pancreatits with poor Ransons criteria and ? ICU and monitor w/ CT scans"
"What abx do you give if there is FNA-proven infection associated with pancreatitis? Meropenem"
"What is definitive tx for necrotizing pancreatitis? Necrosectomy after fluid has solidified"
"What are 2 ways patients get pancreatic abscesses? 1. Necrotizing pancreatitis who stays ill 2. Typical pancreatitis w/ abscess on day 5(ish) w/ persistent fever/leukocytosis"
"What is tx of pancreatic abscess? Drainage"
"What is a late sequelae cx of pancreatitis? Pancreatic pseudocyst"
"Pancreatitis complication with mass (palpable) sx's (dyspnea, ascites, and early satiety)? Pancreatic pseudocyst"
"How do you dx a pancreatic pseudocyst? CT"
"How do you decide to treat pancreatic pseudocyst? <6cm AND <6 wks old -> watch and wait >6cm OR >6 wks -> drain (risk of hemorrhage is too great)::wks and cm"
"Is surgery recommended for chronic pancreatitis? No; surgery is CI"
"How is chronic pancreatits treated? 1. Treat the pain (very painful) 2. Manage DM, steatorrhea, and malabsorption"
"Right-sided colon cancers bleed while left-sided colon cancers obstruct"
"Suspect colon cancer in a postmenopausal women/any man w/ an iron-def anemia or any aged pt. with change in stool caliber"
"How do you dx colon cancer? Bx via colonoscopy"
"When does colonoscopy screening begin? 50 or 10y before relative who had cancer"
"What is the screening schedule for colon cancer? q10 yrs"
"What is tx of colon cancer? Resection and chemotherapy"
"What is tx if CIS is found on pathology of polyp? More frequent screening"
"What is tx of FAP? Total colectomy"
"When can you treat UC with surgery? Refractory to medical tx or with long-standing disease (>8 yrs = malignant transformation)"
"What type of surgery is performed in Ulcerative Colitis? Proctocolectomy"
"After how many years of UC is surveillance colonoscopy required? Colonoscopy q1 yr needed at yr 8 from dx"
"Is surgery indicated for Crohn's disease? No: surgery is only indicated in severe Crohn's w/ infection/abscess or fistula"
"When is surgery indicated in Crohn's? 1. Infection/abscess requires surgery to drain 2. Fistulas"
"External hemmorhoids hurt and internal hemmorhoids bleed"
"Surgical intervention for hemorrhoids is indicated after conservative therapy (e.g. phenylephrine rectal cream, Sitz baths, stool softeners) fails"
"External hemorrhoids are treated with resection"
"What is surgical tx of internal hemorrhoids? Banding"
"What causes anal fissures? Abnormally tight sphincter → mucosa tears with passage of stools"
"How do anal fissures present? Pain on defectaion that lasts for hours"
"How do you dx anal fissures? Physical exam (DRE, anoscopy)"
"What is initial medical tx for anal fissures? Conservative measures → topical anesthetics/vasodilators"
"What is surgical tx of anal fissures once conservative tx fails? Lateral internal sphincterotomy"
"What causes anal cancer? HPV"
"What can be done for screening of anal cancer in high risk pt's? Anal pap"
"What is tx of anal cancer? Nigro radiochemotherapy or resection"
"What is a pilonidal cyst? Abscessed hair follicle"
"What is the etiology of a pilonidal cyst? Hairy butt that gets infected"
"What is tx of pilondal cyst? Drainage followed by resection"
"What are the two causes of SBO? Adhesions (MCC w/ pior surgeries), hernia (MCC w/out prior surgery)"
"How does SBO initially present? colicky abdominal pain w/ +gas/stool and borborygmi"
"How do you dx SBO? Upright KUB (dilated loops of bowel with air-fluid levels)"
"What do you do to confirm dx of SBO? CT scan w/oral contrast"
"What is tx for incomplete SBO? Serial exams and conservative measures (fluid, potassium and NG tube compression)"
"What is tx of complete SBO? Ex-lap"
"Direct hernias pass through the inguinal (Hesselbach's) triangle"
"Direct hernias pass directly through abdominal wall through the transversalis muscle"
"Direct hernias are medial to epigastric vessels"
"Indirect inguinal hernia travels the entire length of the inguinal canal following descent path of the testes"
"Indirect inguinal hernia enters internal inguinal ring lateral to inferior epigastric artery and exits external inguinal ring"
"What type of hernia is considered a candidate for elective surgery? Reducible"
"What type of hernia is considered a candidate for urgent surgery? Incarcerated"
"What type of hernia requires emergency surgery requiring ex-lap? Strangulated w/ peritoneal signs"
"What is dx in pt. presenting with anorexia, then vague periumbilical pain that resolves and returneys at Mcburney's pt. w/ focal peritoneal findings? Appendicitis"
"What is tx for obvious appendicitis? Go straight to surgery"
"What type of tumor presents with 5-HIAA in urine plus R valvular fibrosis, flushing, wheezing and diarrhea? Intestinal carcinoid with mets to the liver"
"What are risk factors for gallstones? females, fat, forty, fertile, fnative american"
"What is tx of asymptomatic gallstones? Nothing"
"How do sx gallstones typically present? Colicky RUQ abdominal pain that may radiate to Rt shoulder and occur after fatty meal"
"How is sx gallstones diagnosed? U/S"
"What is tx of sx gallstones? Elective cholecystectomy"
"What are PE findings in a pt. with acute cholecystitis? Constant RUQ abd pain accompanied by mild fever/leukocytosis"
"What causes acute cholecystitis? Gallstone lodged in cystic duct"
"How do you diagnose acute cholecystitis? U/S"
"What test is used to confirm acute cholecystitis? HIDA scan"
"What is tx of acute cholecystitis? Emergent cholecystectomy (percutaneous cholecystostomy if unstable)"
"How does a pt. present with ascending cholangitis? (5) RUQ pain, Murphys sign +, elevated enzymes, T > 104, leukocytosis"
"What is tx of ascending cholangitis? ERCP & start Abx (Cipro and Metro) → urgent cholecystectomy"
"What is the pathophysiology of choledocholithiasis? CBD obstruction proximal to pancreatic duct w/ elevated biliary/liver enzymes"
"How does a pt. present w/ gallstone pancreatitis? RUQ pain, Murphys sign +, elevated AST/ALT, lipase, amylase, mild fever/leukocytosis"
"How is choledocholithiasis dx'd? U/S or MRCP"
"How is choledocholithiasis treated? ERCP to retrieve stone; eventual cholecystectomy"
"How does obstructive abdominal pain present? Colicky (comes and goes) with contraction of lumen/localized near affected organ"
"What is the timing of perforation abdominal pain? Sudden onset"
"Where is perforation pain located? Vague, generalized"
"A pt. with a(n) perforation will lay motionless in fear that any mvmt will slosh fluid around and aggravate pain"
"Perforation pain is constant::constant or colicky?"
"How do you dx perforation? Upright KUB"
"What is tx of perforation? Ex-lap"
"How do you dx small bowel obstruction? Xray (best initial test) CT (more accurate)::2"
"What type of abdominal pain is associated with sudden onset severe pain that is out of proportion to PE? Ischemia"
"What type of abdominal pain is suspected in an old man who is post-MI (shock) or with Afib (emboli)? Ischemia"
"Diarrhea/abd discomfort can occur after cholecystectomy d/t dysregulation of bile/lack of fat digestion"
"What diet changes should occur after cholecystectomy? Smaller meals, healthy fats (easier to digest), increased fiber"
"Postcholecystectomy syndrome is a complex of heterogeneous symptoms, including persistent abdominal pain and dyspepsia, that recur and persist after cholecystectomy"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents with bifrontal headaches upon awakening with associated nausea, vomiting, and blurry vision for the past month? MRI of the brain"
"Can a patient with severe, acute pain refractory to NSAIDs and a history of IV drug abuse be given opioids for acute pain management? Yes"
"Diabetic neuropathy strictly affects lower::upper or lower motor neurons"
"In the acute phase of spinal cord injury, patients can develop spinal shock with absent reflexes and flaccid::spastic or flaccid paralysis"
"Initial management of acute spinal cord compression includes emergency MRI and IV glucocorticoids"
"Alcoholic cerebellar degeneration typically affects patients with extensive alcohol abuse and presents with progressive wide-based gait and postural instability"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with painless, proximal muscle weakness of the lower extremities? The patient has a history of giant cell arteritis that is medically managed. ESR and CK levels are normal. Drug-induced myopathy (due to corticosteroids)"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for restless leg syndrome? Dopamine receptor agonists (ropinirole, pramipexole)"
"What hematologic pathology is associated with restless leg syndrome? Iron deficiency anemia"
"Myasthenic crisis is managed with plasmapheresis or intravenous immunoglobulins, usually in combination with corticosteroids"
"Pronator drift is a relatively sensitive and specific sign for UMN or pyramidal tract disease affecting the upper extremities"
"What is the single greatest overall risk factor for both ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke? Hypertension (4x risk of CVA compared to normotensive individuals)"
"What is the initial diagnostic test of choice in a patient with suspected stroke? Non-contrast CT scan of the head"
"What is the most common cause of intraparenchymal hemorrhage in children? AV malformation"
"What is the most common cause of spontaneous lobar (parietal/occipital) hemorrhage in the elderly? Cerebral amyloid angiopathy"
"Wernicke encephalopathy typically manifests as a triad of encephalopathy, oculomotor dysfunction, and gait ataxia"
"What is the major cause of death within the first 24 hours of presentation of a subarachnoid hemorrhage? Rebleeding"
"What is the major cause of delayed morbidity and death after 3 - 10 days of presentation of a subarachnoid hemorrhage? Vasospasm"
"Vasospasm following a subarachnoid hemorrhage can best be prevented with initiation of nimodipine"
"Maneuvers that increase intracranial pressure include leaning forward, Valsalva, and coughing"
"How does a baby with TE fistula present? Gurgling, coughing, bubbling"
"How is TE fistula dx'd? NG tube and X-ray => NG tube coils up in esophagus"
"What is tx of TE fistula? Surgery; Look for VACTERL anomalies"
"How is diagnosis of imperforate anus made? X-ray (upside down)"
"How can low lesions closer to anus causing imperforate anus be corrected? Dilation or minor surgical procedure"
"How are high imperforate anus lesions corrected? Colostomy w/ future correction"
"All pts with imperforate anus need eval for VACTERL"
"If you hear bowel sounds over the lungs and there's a scaphoid abdomen in a dyspneic baby think congenital diaphragmatic hernia"
"What is the biggest complication of having a diaphragmatic hernia for a baby? Hypoplastic lung that requires intubation and ventilation for baby's survival"
"What is tx of congenital diaphragmatic hernia? Surgical repair"
"What does bilious vomiting indicate? Obstruction distal to ampulla of vater"
"What is 1st step in working up bilious vomiting in a neonate? Babygram (X-ray of entire body)"
"What do multiple air fluid levels on babygram during work-up of bilious vomiting indicate? Intestinal atresia"
"What are common causes of intestinal atresia? (2) Vascular accident in utero, mom used coke"
"What does \double-bubble\\" sign on babygram indicate? Duodenal atresia"
"What does a normal gas pattern distal to point of obstruction on babygram indicate? Malrotation"
"What is immediate tx of Gastroschisis/Omphalocele? Cover with wet stuff"
"What do you do to keep bowel decompressed during omphalocele/gastroschisis? NG tube"
"What is tx of gastroschisis/omphalocele if primary closure cannot be achieved? Silo"
"Omphalocele::Gastroschisis or Omphalocele is a midline defect covered with membrane"
"Extrophy of the bladder is a midline defect that is red, shining, and wet with urine"
"What is tx of exstrophy of the bladder? Keep covered with plastic barrier to prevent drying out → surgery"
"What is the assumed diagnosis in a premature baby with bloody diarrhea? Necrotizing enterocolitis"
"How is a diagnosis of necrotizing enterocolitis confirmed? X-ray/babygram will show pneumatosis intestinalis (air in wall of bowel)"
"What is management of necrotizing enterocolitis in newborn? NPO immediately and start on TPN and IV AB's"
"What is the most common cause of meconium illeus? Cystic Fibrosis"
"What is cause of meconium ileus? Pancreatic insufficiency"
"What is tx of meconium ileus? Water-soluble Gastrografin enema to help breakdown obstruction"
"Hirschsprungs disease is caused by absent ganglion migration to Meissner and Auerbach plexuses in colon"
"What class of autonomic drugs may be used for migraine prophylaxis? β-blockers (e.g. propranolol)"
"What class of antidepressant medication may be used for migraine prophylaxis? Tricyclic antidepressants (e.g. amitriptyline)"
"What will exam show in Hirschsprung's? Increased::↑/↓ rectal tone"
"Which neuromuscular junction pathology is characterized by diminished or absent deep tendon reflexes? Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome::MG or LEMS"
"What will KUB show in Hirschsprung's? dilated colon (normal part) and normal distal colon (abnormal part)"
"What is tx of Hirschsprung's? Surgery (remove aganglionic segment)"
"Intussusception occurs when bowel telescopes into another and blood supply is compromised"
"How does intussusception present? Abrupt onset of colicky abdominal pain in an otherwise healthy baby"
"How does infant with intussusception present? Knee-chest position w/ currant jelly diarrhea and sausage shaped mass in abdomen"
"What is used to dx and treat intussusception? Air enema"
"What is considered if baby has persistent or worsening jaundice after 2 weeks of age? Biliary atresia"
"The initial step in the evaluation of biliary atresia is a(n) abdominal ultrasound"
"What is tx of biliary atresia? Kasai procedure (hepatoportoenterostomy)"
"What is dx in baby who presents with sudden projectile vomiting after feeds, olive-shaped mass, and visible peristaltic waves? Pyloric stenosis"
"What is seen on CMP in baby with pyloric stenosis? (3) Hypochloremic, hypokalemic, metabolic alkalosis"
"Which microorganisms (2) are the most common cause of brain abscess? Viridans streptococci and Staphylococcus aureus"
"Brain abscess is often visualized on CT or MRI as a(n) ring-enhancing lesion with central necrosis"
"What is definitive dx of pyloric stenosis? U/S showing \donut sign\\"\""
"What is tx of pyloric stenosis? Pylormyotomy"
"Choanal atresia is an atretic or anatomically stenosed connection between the nose and mouth"
"How will babies present with choanal atresia? Pink up with crying (he/she uses mouth) and blue at rest (obligate nose-breathers)"
"Thyroid nodules in hyperthyroid::hyperthyroid/hypothyroid patients are almost never cancer"
"What is the initial step in evaluation of a newly discovered thyroid nodule? TSH level and U/S"
"Pts with thyroid nodules that are euthyroid::which thyroid status? are more likely to be cancer"
"What is the recommended initial pain management for a cancer patient with severe pain refractory to NSAIDs? Short-acting opioids (e.g. morphine, hydromorphone)"
"Wernicke encephalopathy may be induced iatrogenically by the administration of glucose without thiamine in an alcoholic or malnourished patient"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops rapid, ascending flaccid paralysis and normal sensation with a normal CSF examination after returning from a hiking trip in the Northeast? Tick-borne paralysis"
"The initial treatment of transient ischemic attack involves improving blood pressure control, starting antiplatelet (aspirin → clopidogrel) and statin, and discontinuing smoking"
"If a patient's ptosis is due to myasthenia gravis, application of a(n) ice pack over the eyelids will result in improvement in ptosis"
"What funduscopic finding is likely present in a patient with multiple episodes of transient vision loss associated with changes in head position? Papilledema"
"Cerebral sinus thrombosis typically occurs in patients with hypercoagulable conditions and manifests as headache and signs of intracranial hypertension (e.g. nausea/vomiting, papilledema)"
"What underlying neurological pathology should be suspected in a patient with bilateral trigeminal neuralgia? Multiple sclerosis"
"What is the next step in management for a patient developing respiratory failure due to myasthenic crisis? Intubation"
"Following intubation, myasthenic crisis is managed with plasmapheresis (preferred) or IVIG, as well as corticosteroids"
"The most common subtype of a(n) lacunar stroke is a pure motor stroke, resulting in contralateral hemiparesis of the face, arm, and leg"
"The diagnosis of cerebral sinus thrombosis is confirmed with MRI with venography::imaging modality"
"Which antiplatelet agent is recommended for all patients within 24 hours of ischemic stroke presentation? Aspirin"
"What class of antibiotics is associated with ototoxicity and/or vestibulopathy with an abnormal head thrust test? Aminoglycosides"
"Symptoms of lumbar spinal stenosis are typically relieved while walking up-hill"
"Lacunar infarcts are most commonly associated with chronic hypertension, which results in arteriolar sclerosis"
"A pure motor stroke is typically caused by a lacunar infarct of the posterior limb of the internal capsule"
"The facial/ophthalmic veins are valveless, thus skin infections in this area can easily spread to the cavernous sinus"
"Are patients with pseudodementia typically distressed by their memory impairment? Yes"
"Symptoms of botulism include bilateral cranial neuropathies followed by symmetric, descending::ascending/descending muscle weakness"
"The pathophysiology of foodborne botulism in adults involves inhibition of presynaptic acetylcholine release at the NMJ due to a preformed toxin"
"What is the recommended treatment for foodborne botulism in adults? Horse-derived antitoxin"
"Which lobes are most commonly involved in a spontaneous lobar hemorrhage secondary to cerebral amyloid angiopathy? Parietal and occipital"
"Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is associated with Alzheimer's dementia"
"The pathophysiology of trigeminal neuralgia is related to demyelination along the trigeminal nerve root, often due to localized compression from nearby vascular structures"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus may develop due to obstructive hydrocephalus or decreased CSF absorption"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with bilateral lower extremity weakness and loss of pain/temperature sensation with preserved proprioception and vibratory sense following a motor vehicle accident? Anterior cord syndrome"
"A \steppage gait\\" secondary to foot drop is often caused by L5 radiculopathy and common peroneal neuropathy\""
"HSV encephalitis mainly affects the temporal lobe of the brain"
"Acute-onset focal neurological findings, fever, and behavioral changes in a young patient are suggestive of HSV encephalitis"
"What is the gold standard for diagnosis of HSV encephalitis? HSV PCR analysis of CSF"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with severe eye pain and a sensation of a foreign body in the eye with a corneal staining defect on fluorescein examination? Corneal abrasion"
"What nerve is responsible for corneal sensation? Ophthalmic branch of the trigeminal nerve (V1)"
"Primary CNS lymphoma is typically characterized by EBV DNA in the CSF and a single ring-enhancing lesion on MRI in an HIV-infected patient"
"CSF analysis in patients with idiopathic intracranial hypertension typically reveals an opening pressure > 250 mm H2O with an otherwise normal CSF analysis"
"What psychiatric comorbidities are associated with absence seizure? ADHD and anxiety"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for absence seizures? Ethosuximide"
"What is the most common sequelae of bacterial meningitis in children, and what is the appropriate management? Hearing loss due to inflammatory damage to CN VIII and the cochlea All children with meningitis should have audiologic screening and developmental follow-up Give dexamethasone for children with HiB meningitis to avoid hearing loss"
" Fragile X is caused by  an expansion of CGG trinucleotide repeats in the  FMR1 gene"
"Which cause of intellectual disability is characterized by prominent jaw, large ears, and macroorchidism? Fragile X"
"What is the next step in management for an infant that presents with intractable vomiting, a bulging anterior fontanelle, and increasing head circumference? Brain imaging"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with unilateral hemiparesis that self-resolved within four hours following a seizure? Todd paralysis"
"Infant botulism is caused by ingestion of Clostridium botulinum spores, which are found in environmental dust and honey"
"What is the treatment of choice for infant botulism? Human-derived botulism immune globulin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a previously healthy infant that presents with constipation, bilateral ptosis, and a \floppy\\" head? Infant botulism\""
"What is the next step in management for a child that presents to the ED with signs of mild traumatic brain injury (TBI)? head CT without contrast or observation for 4 - 6 hours"
"Absence seizures are easily provoked by hyperventilation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with multiple staring episodes accompanied by head tilting and mouth chewing, followed by a transient period of confusion? Focal seizure with impairment of consciousness"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with hemiparesis and aphasia hours after falling down with an object in their mouth? Internal carotid artery dissection/thrombus formation"
"Treatment of homocystinuria involves vitamin (B6, B9, B12) supplementation and antiplatelets/anticoagulation"
"What is the greatest risk factor for development of cerebral palsy? Prematurity"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with a history of tetralogy of Fallot and recurrent sinusitis that presents with a two-week history of worsening morning headaches, fever, focal neurological deficits, and a recent first-time seizure? Brain abscess"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that becomes cyanotic and experiences transient loss of consciousness after crying from an upsetting event? Cyanotic breath-holding spell"
"What is the next step in management for an infant that experienced a breath-holding spell? Reassurance"
"Which lysosomal storage diseases are associated with a \cherry-red\\" spot on the macula? Niemann-Pick and Tay-Sachs disease\""
"Niemann-Pick disease may be differentiated from Tay-Sachs disease by the presence of hypo-reflexia and the presence of hepatosplenomegaly"
"Tay-Sachs disease may be differentiated from Niemann-Pick disease by presence of hyperreflexia::hyporeflexia/hyperreflexia and the absence::presence/abscence of hepatosplenomegaly"
"Which lysosomal storage disease is caused by deficiency of sphingomyelinase? Niemann-Pick disease"
"What is the next step in management for a child that presents to the ED after a transient simple febrile seizure? Reassurance"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent that presents with recurrent episodes of bifrontal or unifrontal headache accompanied by nausea/vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia, and auras? Migraine"
"Generalized seizures may be differentiated from syncopal episodes by the presence of a(n) post-ictal state"
"Intraventricular hemorrhage is most commonly seen in premature and low-birth-weight infants"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn that develops scalp swelling limited to one cranial bone several hours after birth? Cephalohematoma (subperiosteal hemorrhage)"
"Signs of shaken baby syndrome include bilateral retinal hemorrhages and neurological abnormalities (e.g. seizures, AMS)"
"Neonatal intraventricular hemorrhage may be complicated by communicating::communicating or non-communicating hydrocephalus"
"The incidence of neonatal intraventricular hemorrhage may be reduced by preventing preterm labor and administering antenatal maternal corticosteroids"
"Fatigue, polyuria, polydipsia and signs of dehydration/weight loss is suggestive of type 1 diabetes::diagnosis"
"Urinary tract infection typically arises by bacteria ascending into the bladder from the vaginal introitus"
"What microorganism is the most common cause of urinary tract infection (UTI)? Escherichia coli"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent that presents with features of nephrotic syndrome and hepatitis B infection? Membranous nephropathy"
"What is the most common cause of proteinuria in children? Transient proteinuria"
"What is the next step in management for a child that is found to have isolated proteinuria on urine dipstick? Repeat dipstick testing on two subsequent occasions"
"Renal tubular acidosis in infants commonly presents with failure to thrive in the setting of normal anion gap metabolic acidosis::acid-base abnormality"
"Renal tubular acidosis is caused by a defect in either hydrogen excretion::type 1 or bicarbonate resorption::type 2 in the kidney"
"Which type(s) of renal tubular acidosis are associated with urine pH ≥ 5.5 (alkalotic)? Type 1 (distal)"
"Which type(s) of renal tubular acidosis are associated with urine pH < 5.5? Type 2 (proximal) Type 4"
"Which type(s) of renal tubular acidosis are associated with low or normal serum K+? type 1 (distal) and type 2 (proximal)"
"Which type(s) of renal tubular acidosis are associated with high serum K+? Type 4 (hyperkalemic)"
"What is the fluid of choice for initial resuscitation of severe hypovolemic hypernatremia in an infant? Isotonic solutions (e.g. normal saline, LR)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African-American patient that presents with painless gross hematuria with numerous intact RBCs on microscopic examination? Renal papillary necrosis (secondary to sickle cell trait)"
"Henoch-Schonlein purpura is a leukocytoclastic vasculitis that occurs secondary to IgA immune complex deposition"
"What is the recommended treatment for Henoch-Schonlein purpura? Supportive (e.g. hydration, NSAIDs); treat with steroids if severe"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young girl that presents with recurrent UTIs since birth with bilateral focal parenchymal scarring and blunted calyces on imaging? Vesicoureteral reflux"
"Chronic constipation in toddlers may be complicated by recurrent UTIs, secondary to urinary stasis"
"Alport syndrome occurs secondary to an inherited defect in type IV collagen"
"What inherited renal pathology is characterized by thinning and splitting of the glomerular basement membrane? Alport syndrome"
"Infants in diapers with suspected UTI should undergo straight catheterization to obtain a sterile specimen for urinalysis and urine culture"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for nocturnal enuresis? Desmopressin"
"Neonatal abstinence syndrome occurs due to exposure to opiate drugs while in the mother's womb"
"Symptoms of neonatal abstinence syndrome include diarrhea, sweating, irritability, and tachypnea::respiratory rate"
"What psychiatric condition is characterized by intentional and repeated fire setting with no obvious motive? Pyromania"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent with a history of IBD that presents with watery diarrhea, a beefy red tongue, and an erythematous rash in sun exposed areas? Pellagra (B3 deficiency)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young child that presents with dry eyes, dry skin, and difficulty adapting to darkness? Exam may show a gray patch on the conjunctiva. Vitamin A deficiency"
"All exclusively breastfed infants should be started on daily vitamin D supplements within the first month of life"
"What hematologic pathology is more common in preterm infants within the first 4 - 6 months of life? Iron deficiency anemia"
"Preterm infants that are exclusively breastfed should be initiated on iron supplementation in addition to vitamin D"
"According to the AAP, pureed fruits and vegetables may be introduced to infants beginning at age 6 months"
"Exclusive breastfeeding = 6 months::age Pureed/solid foods = 6 months::age Cow's milk = 12 months::age"
"Does physiologic jaundice of the newborn result in unconjugated or conjugated hyperbilirubinemia? Unconjugated"
"What is the initial treatment for rapidly rising hyperbilirubinemia in a newborn? Exchange transfusion (for kernicterus prevention)"
"What is the best initial imaging study for a newborn infant that presents with bilious vomiting and no passage of stool? Abdominal X-ray"
"What is the next step in management for an infant with adequate weight gain that spits up formula after each feed? Reassurance"
"What is the next step in management for an infant with failure to thrive that spits up formula after each feed? PPIs and/or thickened feeds (e.g. adding oatmeal)"
"What cause of bilious vomiting is characterized by meconium obstructing the ileum with a microcolon visualized on X-ray? Meconium ileus (usually secondary to cystic fibrosis)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent with a history of T1DM that presents with weight loss, iron deficiency anemia and a pruritic, vesicular rash on the elbows and knees? Celiac disease"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an otherwise healthy infant that presents with excessive crying for > 3 hours per day (usually evenings), for > 3 days per week, for > 3 weeks? Infantile colic"
"Sandifier syndrome refers to arching of the back (opisthotonic posturing) during or after feeding and is related to pathologic GERD"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile child that presents with abdominal pain, jaundice, and a palpable RUQ mass with a normal gallbladder on ultrasound? Biliary cyst"
"In addition to dietary changes, constipation in a toddler may be managed initially with oral laxative therapy"
"To decrease risk of constipation, children should drink < 24 oz of cow's milk per day"
"What is the next step in management for a symptomatic child with evidence of a swallowed coin in the esophagus on X-ray? Flexible endoscopy"
"Esophageal atresia with tracheoesophageal fistula (TEF) often presents with polyhydramnios on prenatal ultrasound"
"Breast milk jaundice is distinguishable from breastfeeding failure jaundice by the absence of signs of dehydration"
"What is the recommended management for infants with breastfeeding failure jaundice? Increase the frequency and duration of feeds (q2h)"
"Neonates should breastfeed every 2 - 3 hours for > 10 - 20 minutes per breast during the first month of life"
"Reye syndrome is fulminant liver failure and encephalopathy in children with viral illness who take aspirin"
"Intussusception results in compromised blood supply, which causes intermittent::frequency abdominal pain with \currant jelly\\" stool\""
"What is the most common congenital lead point for intussusception in children? Meckel diverticulum"
"Jejunal atresia is characterized by a \triple bubble\\" sign and gasless colon on X-ray\""
"What vitamin deficiency is associated with inflammation of the lips with scaling/fissures at the corners of the mouth (angular cheilitis)? Labs show a normocytic anemia. Vitamin B2 (riboflavin)"
"What vitamin deficiency is associated with a normocytic-normochromic anemia? Vitamin B2 (riboflavin) deficiency"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with self-limiting, recurrent nausea and vomiting at the same time each month with no symptoms in between episodes? Cyclic vomiting syndrome"
"Children with cyclic vomiting syndrome often have a family history of migraine"
"What is the fluid of choice for initial resuscitation of a child with moderate-severe dehydration? IV bolus of isotonic solutions (e.g. normal saline, lactated Ringer's)"
"Midgut volvulus is a surgical emergency that classically presents in a neonate with congenital malrotation, manifesting as bilious vomiting and abdominal distention"
"Exclusive breastfeeding is recommended for the first 6 months of life"
"Breastfeeding is associated with decreased maternal risk of breast and ovarian cancer"
"Breastfeeding is contraindicated in infants with galactosemia::infant metabolic problem"
"Intussusception is occasionally palpable as a \sausage-shaped\\" or cylindrical mass in the right upper quadrant\""
"What is the next step in management for a child that swallowed a battery that is located in the esophagus on X-ray? Immediate endoscopic removal"
"What is the next step in management for a child that swallowed a battery that is located in the stomach on X-ray? Observation for 24 - 48 hours"
"Duodenal atresia is characterized by dilation of the stomach and proximal duodenum with a \double bubble\\" sign on X-ray\""
"Duodenal atresia is associated with Down syndrome in up to a third of cases"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 1-month-old that presents with one week of jaundice and acholic stool with hepatomegaly and conjugated hyperbilirubinemia on further examination? Biliary atresia"
"What is the recommended management of patients with biliary atresia prior to a liver transplant? Hepatoportoenterostomy (Kasai procedure)"
"Meckel diverticuli often contain ectopic acid-secreting gastric mucosa and, less frequently, pancreatic tissue"
"Children with Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome should be closely monitored for the development of Wilms tumor (nephroblastoma) and hepatoblastoma with abdominal ultrasound::imaging and serum AFP"
"Eosinophilic esophagitis is characterized by esophageal rings and linear furrows on endoscopy"
"Eosinophilic esophagitis is characterized by eosinophilic infiltration of the esophagus, often in atopic patients"
"What is the typical prognosis of milk- or soy-protein-induced colitis? Spontaneous resolution by 1 year of age"
"99% of full-term infants stool within 48 hours of birth"
"Congenital umbilical hernia is due to an incomplete closure of the umbilical ring"
"Abdominal wall defects (e.g. gastroschisis) typically result in elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein during pregnancy"
"Which abdominal wall defect, omphalocele or gastroschisis, is associated with other major malformations? Omphalocele"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that ingested an unknown bottle of pills several hours ago and now presents with abdominal pain, hematemesis, hypotension, and metabolic acidosis? Iron poisoning"
"Patients who survive acute iron toxicity are at risk of developing pyloric stenosis within 2 - 8 weeks after ingestion"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with acute iron toxicity? Anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for severely ill patients with iron toxicity? Deferoxamine (an iron chelator)"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice to evaluate the extent of injury following caustic ingestion? Upper GI endoscopy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with cyanosis and decreased O2 saturation after using an oral topical anesthetic (e.g. benzocaine)? Methemoglobinemia"
"Methemoglobinemia often presents with cyanosis and chocolate-colored blood"
"Methemoglobinemia is typically treated with methylene blue"
"What is the next step in management for a child that has an elevated lead level on capillary blood testing? Measure venous lead level"
"What is the recommended management for children with mild lead poisoning (5 - 44 mcg/dL on venous blood testing)? Removal from lead-containing environment; repeat level in < 1 month"
"What is the recommended management for children with severe lead poisoning (≥ 70 mcg/dL on venous blood testing)? Dimercaprol plus EDTA"
"Risk factors for lead poisoning include homes built before 1978 under renovation or with peeling paint"
"What hematological complication is associated with nitrates? Methemoglobinemia"
"Atopic dermatitis (eczema) in infants usually manifests as pruritic, scaly, erythematous lesions on the face, chest, and extensor surfaces"
"Atopic dermatitis (eczema) in children/adults usually appears on flexor surfaces"
"What is the first-line treatment for atopic dermatitis (eczema)? Topical emollients"
"What dermatologic condition is more common in patients with a family history of asthma and/or allergic rhinitis? Atopic dermatitis (eczema)"
"Sunscreen with SPF 15 - 30 or higher should be applied 15 - 30 minutes prior to sun exposure to allow time for development of a protective film and be reapplied at least every 2 hours"
"What microorganism is involved in the pathogenesis of tinea versicolor? Malassezia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with erythematous plaques with yellow, greasy scale on the scalp, eyelids, nasolabial folds, and postauricular area? Seborrheic dermatitis (\cradle cap\\")\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with a history of eczema that presents with fever, lymphadenopathy, and multiple painful vesicles with hemorrhagic crusting? Gram stain of the lesions is negative. Eczema herpeticum"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African American child that presents with pruritic, erythematous plaque on the scalp that resulted in patchy hair loss with residual \black dots\\"? Lymphadenopathy is present. Tinea capitis\""
"What demographic is most commonly affected by Tinea capitis? African American children"
"What is the recommended treatment for tinea capitis? Oral griseofulvin or terbinafine"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with linear streaks of erythematous vesicles a few days after returning from a camping trip? Contact dermatitis"
"What type of hypersensitivity reaction is contact dermatitis (e.g. poison ivy, nickel allergy)? Type IV HSR (delayed-type hypersensitivity)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a healthy-appearing newborn (e.g. baby DOL 2-5) that presents with scattered blanchable erythematous papules that spare the palms/soles? What are they filled with? Erythema toxicum neonatorum; eosinophils"
"What is the next step in management for a newborn with suspected erythema toxicum neonatorum? Reassurance"
"Intentional scald injuries in children are characterized by sharp lines of demarcation and uniform burn depth with sparing of flexor surfaces"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a vaccinated child that presents with intensely pruritic small, erythematous papules and burrows involving the hands? Scabies"
"What is the most common renal manifestation of Henoch-Scholein purpura? Hematuria"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an Asian/African-American infant that presents with flat blue-gray patches on the lower back and buttock? Congenital dermal melanocytosis (\Mongolian spot\\")\""
"Do strawberry hemangiomas typically regress spontaneously? Yes (after an initial period of rapid growth)"
"What is the recommended management for strawberry hemangiomas that are disfiguring, disabling, or life-threatening? β-blockers (e.g. propranolol)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an athlete that presents with a scaly, erythematous, pruritic plaque with a raised border and central clearing on their leg? Tinea corporis (ringworm) caused by dermatophytes"
"What is the first-line treatment for tinea corporis? Topical antifungals (e.g. clotrimazole, terbinafine)"
"What is the recommended management of pityriasis rosea? Reassurance"
"Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome is caused by exfoliative toxin-producing strains of S. aureus"
"Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome usually affects children, but may also be seen in adults with immunocompromise or renal insufficiency"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with an erythematous, sharply demarcated perianal rash that is associated with pruritus and pain? Streptococcal perianal dermatitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with an erythematous rash in the diaper region that spares skin folds? Irritant (contact) diaper dermatitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with an erythematous rash in the diaper region with satellite lesions and involvement of skin folds? Candidal diaper dermatitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with an isolated, hyperpigmented patch with numerous dark, coarse hairs? Congenital melanocytic nevus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with blanchable, pink patch involving the glabella? Nevus simplex"
"Erythema multiforme is a blistering skin disorder most commonly associated with HSV infection"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with a history of sickle cell disease that presents with hypovolemic shock in the setting of LUQ tenderness and splenomegaly? Splenic sequestration"
"Splenic sequestration is characterized by normocytic anemia with increased reticulocyte count"
"Splenic sequestration is characterized by decreased platelet count"
"Hydroxyurea is useful in the treatment of sickle cell anemia because it increases levels of HbF (typically greater than 15%)"
"At baseline, patients with sickle cell disease have increased levels of HbF"
"What is the most common cause of pediatric stroke? Sickle cell disease"
"How do the following laboratory values change in anemia of chronic disease? Serum iron: decreased TIBC: decreased % Saturation: decreased Ferritin: increased"
"What is the treatment for severe or refractory hereditary spherocytosis? Splenectomy"
"Splenectomy is associated with a long-term risk for sepsis with encapsulated bacteria"
"Children with sickle cell disease should take daily oral penicillin prophylaxis until 5 years of age"
"What is the next step in management for a child with suspected immune thrombocytopenia that presents with scattered petechiae and self-limited epistaxis? Observation"
"Iron deficiency anemia in children is often caused by excess consumption of cow's milk (> 24 ounces/day)::what and how much?"
"Aplastic anemia may be caused by Fanconi anemia, which occurs due to a(n) ds DNA repair defect, resulting in bone marrow failure"
"Pure red cell aplasia is associated with thymoma, lymphocytic leukemias, and parvovirus B19 infection"
"Avascular necrosis of the femoral head results in pain on hip abduction and internal rotation (movements)"
"Lympho-blasts are characterized by positive nuclear staining for TdT, which is a DNA polymerase"
"What demographic is most commonly associated with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)? Children::Children/Adolescents/Adults/Elderly"
"Cytoplasmic aggregates of periodic acid Schiff (PAS) positive material are characteristic of lympho-blasts"
"Cytoplasmic aggregates of peroxidase positive granules and/or Auer rods are characteristic of myelo-blasts"
"What demographic (age group) is most commonly associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML)? Older adults (median onset is 65 years old)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent with a history of hemophilia A that presents with gradually worsening pain and limited motion of his knee? Hemophilic arthropathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with a family history of anemia that presents with increased MCHC, Coombs-negative hemolytic anemia, jaundice, and splenomegaly? Hereditary spherocytosis"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is diagnosed by the acidified glycerol lysis fragility test in combination with eosin-5-maleimide binding test (flow cytometry)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with a history of sickle cell disease that presents with acute, severe anemia in the setting of a low reticulocyte count and no hepatosplenomegaly? Aplastic crisis"
"Aplastic crisis is often seen in patients with sickle cell disease and is characterized by: Decreased::Increased/Decreased/Normal reticulocyte count Normal::Increased/Decreased/Normal platelet count"
"Aplastic crisis is often seen in patients with sickle cell disease and is characterized by normal platelet count"
"What is the most common trigger of aplastic crisis in patients with sickle cell disease? Parvovirus B19 infection"
"What hematologic pathology is characterized by profound hypocellularity with fatty infiltration on bone marrow biopsy? Aplastic anemia"
"What non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemia presents with rapid-onset anemia within the 1st year of life? Diamond-Blackfan anemia (also known as congenital pure red cell aplasia or congenital hypoplastic anemia)"
"Hemolytic uremic syndrome is classically seen in children with E. coli O157:H7 dysentery, which results from exposure to undercooked beef"
"Medulloblastoma is a posterior fossa tumor of childhood that typically arises from the cerebellar vermis::location"
"What finding on blood smear is strongly suggestive of physical or functional hyposplenism (e.g. splenectomy)? Howell-Jolly bodies"
"Osteosarcoma arises in the metaphysis of long bones, often around the knee"
"What is the most common complication of sickle cell trait? Painless hematuria (microscopic or gross)"
"Thalassemia minor is characterized by normal total RBC count and normal RDW"
"In patients with sickle cell disease, chronic damage and autoinfarction typically causes functional asplenia by age 5"
"Polycythemia in term neonates is defined as a hematocrit > 65%."
"What are two maternal risk factors for neonatal polycythemia other than delayed cord clamping? Maternal HTN Maternal DM"
"What is the recommended treatment for symptomatic neonates with polycythemia (e.g. respiratory distress, hypoglycemia)? Partial exchange transfusion"
"Diamond-Blackfan anemia is associated with congenital anomalies, such as short stature, webbed neck, cleft lip, shield chest, and triphalangeal thumbs"
"What hematologic pathology is characterized by normocytic anemia with a low reticulocyte count in preterm infants? Anemia of prematurity"
"Acute leukemia is defined as a neoplastic proliferation of blasts > 25% on bone marrow biopsy"
"The pathogenesis of refeeding syndrome involves a rapid surge in insulin activity as the body resumes anabolism"
"Refeeding syndrome is associated with decreased::increased/decreased serum levels of phosphorus, Mg2+, and K+"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a three-month-old that presents with severe hypoglycemia and lactic acidosis with a doll-like face and hepatomegaly? von Gierke disease (type I glycogen storage disease, glucose-6-phosphatase deficiency)"
"Patients with von Gierke disease typically have a protuberant abdomen, secondary to hepatomegaly"
"Patients with von Gierke disease often have thin extremities, short stature, and a \doll-like\\" face\""
"Von Gierke disease is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase"
"von Gierke disease is associated with increased serum lactate, triglycerides, and uric acid"
"In gonadotropin-independent (peripheral) precocious puberty, LH levels are low::high/low at baseline and does not::does/does not increase with a GnRH agonist"
"In gonadotropin-dependent (central) precocious puberty, LH levels are high at baseline"
"The initial evaluation of patients with precocious puberty is to determine the patient's bone age, which helps differentiate true precocious puberty from other benign pubertal variants, such as premature thelarche/adrenarche"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young boy that presents with advanced bone age, coarse pubic hair, and severe cystic acne with low basal LH levels and normal testicular exam? Late-onset (nonclassic) congenital adrenal hyperplasia"
"Precocious puberty is defined as the onset of secondary sexual characteristics in girls < 8 and boys < 9 years of age"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young girl that presents with precocious puberty with an advanced bone age, high FSH/LH levels, and a normal MRI? Idiopathic precocious puberty"
"What is the recommended treatment for idiopathic precocious puberty? Continuous GnRH agonist therapy (e.g. leuprolide)"
"Patients with central precocious puberty require MRI of the brain prior to starting GnRH agonist therapy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese young girl that presents with pubic hair, acne, and normal bone age? Premature adrenarche"
"What cause of precocious puberty is associated with unilateral café-au-lait spots and polyostotic fibrous dysplasia? McCune-Albright syndrome"
"What is the most common cause of congenital hypothyroidism worldwide? Treatment? Thyroid dysgenesis; levothyroxine"
"How does serum K+ change in a patient with diabetic ketoacidosis? Normal/Increased"
"How do total body stores of K+ change in a patient with diabetic ketoacidosis? Decreased"
"Diabetic ketoacidosis is often precipitated by acute infection due to systemic release of catecholamines and cortisol"
"Fetal hyperglycemia during::during/after the first trimester is associated with malformations"
"Fetal hyperglycemia after::during/after the first trimester is associated with macrosomia, birth injury, and hypoglycemia"
"What is the most common complication among infants of diabetic mothers? Neonatal hypoglycemia"
"What is the next step in management for a healthy adolescent male that presents with tender, subareolar masses on both breasts? Reassurance and follow-up"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn female that presents with salt wasting and clitoromegaly? Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency)"
"Diagnosis of 21-hydroxylase deficiency is supported by elevated 17-hydroxyprogesterone levels"
"What is the next step in management for a newborn male with a cystic testicular mass that is transilluminated with light? Reassurance and observation"
"What is the next step in management for a newborn that presents with bilaterally enlarged mammary glands and whitish vaginal discharge? Reassurance"
"What is the most common cause of vaginal bleeding in the neonatal period? Maternal withdrawal of estrogen"
"In androgen insensitivity syndrome a person is genotypically XY but has female external genitalia with male internal genitalia"
"When should patients with androgen insensitivity syndrome have bilateral gonadectomy? After puberty"
"In 5α-reductase deficiency, a person is genotypically XY but has ambiguous external genitalia with normal male internal genitalia"
"Which sex chromosome disorder is associated with short stature, primary amenorrhea, and absent thelarche/menarche in a female? Turner syndrome"
"Patients with Turner syndrome typically have low levels of estrogen and high levels of FSH/LH"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young girl that presents with breast development and a white, odorless vaginal discharge with an ovarian mass on ultrasound? Granulosa cell tumor"
"What is the next step in management for an adolescent female that presents with nausea/vomiting and RLQ abdominal pain with an unknown last menstrual period? Urine pregnancy testing (e.g. hCG)"
"Do adolescents seeking pregnancy prevention options (e.g. OCPs, emergency contraception) need parental consent? No"
"What is the most effective emergency contraceptive? Copper IUD (inflammatory reaction)"
"What is the next step in management for a young girl that presents with a foul-smelling vaginal discharge with a whitish foreign body inside the vaginal introitus on physical exam? Irrigation with warmed fluid or removal with a swab"
"Primary amenorrhea is defined as the absence of menarche by age 15"
"What is the preferred imaging modality for the initial evaluation of a patient with primary amenorrhea? Pelvic ultrasound"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent patient with a unilateral, mobile, well-circumscribed mass in the outer quadrant of the breast that becomes tender prior to menstruation? Fibroadenoma"
"Size and tenderness of a fibroadenoma of the breast typically increases prior to menstruation"
"What is the next step in management for an adolescent that presents with a tender breast mass a few days prior to menstruation? Follow-up after menses"
"What is the next step in management for an adolescent girl that presents with primary amenorrhea and absent breast development with a uterus present on ultrasound? Measure serum FSH level"
"What is the next step in management for an adolescent girl with primary amenorrhea with a uterus present on ultrasound and high FSH levels? Karyotyping"
"What is the next step in management for an adolescent girl with primary amenorrhea with a uterus present on ultrasound and low FSH levels? Brain MRI"
"What is the first-line treatment for primary dysmenorrhea? NSAIDs and/or OCPs"
"What is the recommended treatment for hemodynamically stable patients with heavy vaginal bleeding? High-dose oral contraceptives (OCPs) In a hemodynamically unstable patient? D&C and/or packed red blood cell transfusion"
"Maternal hyperglycemia is associated with macrosomia, secondary to fetal hyperinsulinemia"
"Fetal macrosomia is associated with increased risk for shoulder dystocia"
"Small for gestational age (SGA) infants have a birth weight that is below the 10th percentile for gestational age"
"What hematologic complication may be seen in a newborn with low birth weight and intrauterine growth restriction? Polycythemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with pain with eye movements as well as fever, periorbital edema, ophthalmoplegia, and proptosis? Orbital cellulitis"
"What is the most common predisposing factor for orbital cellulitis? Bacterial sinusitis"
"What microorganism is involved in the pathogenesis of trachoma? Chlamydia trachomatis (serotypes A, B, C)"
"What is the recommended pharmacotherapy for trachoma? Oral azithromycin (macrolide)"
"What is the likely diagnosis and next step in a child with a history of neurofibromatosis type 1 that presents with unilateral vision loss, proptosis, and optic disc pallor? Optic pathway glioma; get MRI"
"Gonococcal conjunctivitis typically presents 2 - 5 days after birth with marked eyelid edema and purulent discharge"
"Chlamydial conjunctivitis typically presents 5 - 14 days after birth with mild eyelid edema and watery, serosanguinous, or mucopurulent::3 discharge"
"Gonococcal conjunctivitis can be prevented with prophylactic topical erythromycin ointment soon after birth"
"Strabismus refers to intermittent or constant ocular misalignment."
"Concerning examination findings for children with strabismus include asymmetric corneal light reflections and deviation on cover test"
"What is the next step in management for a 2-month-old infant that presents with intermittent strabismus? Reassurance"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with a history of asthma that presents with bilateral itchy, red eyes with watery discharge for the past several weeks? Allergic conjunctivitis"
"Is allergic conjunctivitis typically unilateral or bilateral? Always bilateral"
"How often should vision assessment be assessed in children? At every well-child visit"
"Dacryostenosis is caused by obstruction of the nasolacrimal duct and results in crusting of the eye lashes and tearing"
"What is the recommended treatment for dacryostenosis? Nasolacrimal sac massage"
"Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is due to a defect in NADPH oxidase enzyme"
"Can the rotavirus vaccine be administered to patients with a history of intussusception? No (contraindicated)"
"What is the definitive treatment severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)? Stem cell transplant"
"SCID is characterized by absent T cells and dysfunctional B cells"
"Which immunodeficiency is characterized by no B-cell differentiation and decreased immunoglobulins of all classes? Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID)"
"What is the recommended management for patients with common variable immunodeficiency (CVID)? IV immunoglobulins"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency is characterized by recurrent skin and mucosal bacterial infections with absent pus formation"
"Leukocyte adhesion deficiency is characterized by marked leukocytosis with neutrophil predominance"
"In preterm infants, all vaccines should be administered according to chronologic::chronologic/gestational age"
"The first hepatitis B vaccine should be administered when the newborn weighs > 2 kg"
"Contraindications to the DTaP vaccine include history of anaphylaxis to vaccine ingredients, unstable neurologic disorders, and encephalopathy within a week of previous vaccine administration"
"Selective IgA deficiency is associated with anaphylaxis during blood transfusions"
"Conditions causing IgA deficiency predispose patients to chronic giardiasis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 8-month-old infant with low serum IgG and normal serum IgM/IgA? Transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy"
"Hyper-IgM syndrome is most commonly due to mutated CD40L on Th cells"
"C1 inhibitor deficiency results in hereditary angioedema"
"C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency results in elevated levels of the edema-producing factors C2b and bradykinin"
"Which complement deficiency results in increased risk for recurrent Neisseria infection? C5-C9 (MAC) deficiency"
"Acute otitis media often follows a(n) upper respiratory infection"
"What are the most common causative organisms (3) associated with acute otitis media? Streptococcus pneumoniae, nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis"
"Acute epiglottitis often presents with acute-onset fever, drooling::mouth, and dysphagia with respiratory distress"
"Patients with acute epiglottitis may hyperextend the neck and maintain a tripod position, which is a sign of respiratory distress"
"What is the most common cause of acute epiglottitis in unvaccinated children? H. influenzae type B"
"Acute epiglottitis may present with a muffled (\hot potato\\") voice and inspiratory stridor\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with chronic inspiratory stridor that worsens in the supine position and with exertion (crying, feeding)? Laryngomalacia *bonus: what position improves the stridor in this condition?"
"What imaging test/study may be used to confirm the diagnosis of laryngomalacia? Direct laryngoscopy"
"What is the recommended management for infants with laryngomalacia? Reassurance"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with worsening purulent nasal discharge and facial pain one week after a viral URI? Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis"
"What is the recommended treatment for acute bacterial rhinosinusitis? Oral amoxicillin-clavulanic acid"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with ear pain, erythema, and discharge after swimming in an outdoor pool? Otitis externa (\swimmers ear\\")\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a neonate that presents with hypothermia, hypotonia, poor feeding, and lethargy? Neonatal sepsis"
"What is the most common cause of neonatal sepsis? Group B Streptococcus"
"What is the recommended empiric treatment for suspected bacterial meningitis in children? vancomycin and a third-generation cephalosporin"
"Which type of meningitis presents with normal glucose, protein < 100, and increased lymphocytes in the CSF? Viral meningitis"
"What is the most common cause of viral meningitis? Enteroviruses"
"Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm) infection typically presents in school-age children with perianal pruritus, especially at night"
"Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm) infection is diagnosed using the \tape test\\"\""
"What is the recommended treatment for Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm) infection? Albendazole or pyrantel pamoate for patient & household contacts"
"Malaria should be suspected in ill patients who have traveled to endemic regions, especially those with cyclic fevers"
"Hemoglobinopathies, such a sickle cell trait and thalassemia, may confer resistance against malaria"
"Diagnosis of malaria is confirmed by visualization of parasites on thick and thin blood smears"
"Measles virus (rubeola) is characterized by a prodrome of cough, coryza, and conjunctivitis, followed by a maculopapular rash that spreads in a(n) cephalocaudal pattern and spares the palms/soles"
"What is the mode of transmission of measles virus (rubeola)? Airborne"
"The treatment for measles virus is generally supportive, however vitamin A is recommended for hospitalized patients"
"Cat-scratch disease often manifests as a localized papule followed by regional tender lymphadenopathy that develops in the subsequent 1 - 2 weeks"
"Cat-scratch disease is caused by the bacteria Bartonella henselae"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with a pruritic rash with clusters of vesicles in different stages of healing? Varicella zoster infection"
"Empiric antibiotic therapy for acute, unilateral lymphadenitis is typically with clindamycin"
"What are the most common causes (2) of osteomyelitis in children with sickle cell disease? Salmonella and Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the most common predisposing factor for acute bacterial sinusitis? Viral URI"
"Laryngotracheitis (croup) typically presents with non-specific rhinorrhea/fever followed by a hoarse,\seal bark\\" cough and inspiratory stridor\""
"What is the most common cause of laryngotracheitis (croup)? Parainfluenza virus"
"What X-ray finding is characteristic of laryngotracheitis (croup)? \Steeple sign\\" (due to subglottic edema)\""
"Infectious mononucleosis often presents in teens with fever, exudative pharyngitis, and lymphadenopathy, especially of the posterior cervical nodes"
"Patients with infectious mononucleosis often develop a maculopapular rash after administration of ampicillin or amoxicillin"
"Orbital cellulitis is a more severe::mild/severe infection than preseptal cellulitis"
"Which diagnosis, preseptal or orbital cellulitis, is likely to present as eyelid erythema/edema with normal vision and intact extraocular eye movements? Preseptal cellulitis"
"Rubella (German measles) is characterized by a prodrome of mild fever and posterior auricular::location lymphadenopathy followed by a maculopapular rash that spreads in a(n) cephalocaudal pattern"
"What symptom is characteristic of rubella in adolescents/adults, but not in children? Arthralgias/arthritis"
"Pertussis typically begins with a(n) catarrhal phase, characterized by a mild cough and rhinitis for 1 - 2 weeks"
"After an initial catarrhal phase, pertussis progresses to a paroxysmal phase, which is characterized by a \whooping cough\\""
"Scarlet fever is caused by infection with group A Streptococcus (S. pyogenes)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with failure to thrive, lymphadenopathy, and leukocytosis with a history of Pneumocystis jirovecii and Candida infection? HIV infection"
"The most important risk factor for vertical transmission of HIV is high maternal viral load"
"Koplik spots are bluish-white lesions on the buccal mucosa and are pathognomonic for measles"
"What is the recommended post-exposure prophylaxis for an incompletely immunized healthy child exposed to varicella zoster? Administer VZV vaccine"
"What is the recommended post-exposure prophylaxis for a pregnant woman exposed to varicella zoster? Administer varicella zoster immunoglobulin"
"What is the recommended post-exposure prophylaxis for an immunized child exposed to varicella zoster? Observation"
"The major criteria for the diagnosis of acute rheumatic fever are the J♥NES criteria"
"Can acute rheumatic fever be prevented with treatment of Streptococcal pharyngitis (e.g. oral penicillin)? Yes"
"What microorganisms are most commonly associated with non-bullous impetigo? (2) Staphylococcus aureus Streptococcus pyogenes"
"What is the recommended treatment for localized non-bullous impetigo? Topical antibiotics (e.g. mupirocin)"
"Children with meningitis secondary to Haemophilus influenzae type b should receive dexamethasone to reduce the risk of sensorineural hearing loss"
"Congenital toxoplasmosis classically presents with diffuse intracerebral calcifications, hydrocephalus, and ventriculomegaly"
"Maternal toxoplasmosis is typically acquired through ingestion of cat feces or raw/undercooked meat"
"What eye pathology is associated with toxoplasmosis? Chorioretinitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with fever, pharyngitis, and gray vesicles/ulcers on the posterior oropharynx? Herpangina Secondary to coxsackie A virus infection"
"What is the recommended treatment for herpangina? Supportive"
"Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome is characterized by sudden vasomotor collapse due to bilateral adrenal hemorrhage"
"Which congenital infection is associated with rhinorrhea and desquamating skin rash? Syphilis"
"Which congenital infection is associated with cataracts, sensorineural hearing loss, and patent ductus arteriosus? Rubella"
"Congenital CMV is associated with periventricular calcifications"
"Hydrophobia and aerophobia are pathognomonic features of encephalitic rabies"
"What is the most common source of rabies transmission in the United States? Bats"
"Treatment of neonatal tetanus includes antibiotics and tetanus immune globulin"
"What organism is responsible for recurrent pulmonary infections in a young child with cystic fibrosis? Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the next step in management for an asymptomatic adolescent that presents with a soft, mobile, non-tender cervical lymph node measuring 1 cm in diameter? Observation"
"What procedure is both diagnostic and therapeutic for septic arthritis? Arthrocentesis (to drain synovial fluid)"
"What is the next step in management for a child that develops a fever and mild rash one week after receiving the MMR vaccine? Reassurance"
"What are the most common causative organisms associated with acute bacterial rhinosinusitis? (2) Streptococcus pneumoniae Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae"
"What is the diagnosis and recommended treatment for a patient with infectious mononucleosis that presents with difficulty swallowing and labored breathing? Acute airway obstruction; IV corticosteroids"
"Which microorganism is associated with rapid-onset food poisoning with predominant vomiting after eating dairy products? Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an unvaccinated child that presents with fever and bilateral parotitis? Mumps"
"What neurologic complication is associated with mumps infection? Aseptic meningitis"
"What mumps complication occurs predominantly in post-pubertal males? Orchitis"
"What is the recommended treatment for a newborn of a mother with active hepatitis B? hepatitis B immune globulin followed by HBV vaccine at birth"
"What is the recommended treatment for vaccinated close contacts of patients with pertussis? Prophylactic macrolides"
"Radial head subluxation (nursemaid's elbow) typically occurs in children after being lifted or pulled by the arm"
"Radial head subluxation (nursemaid's elbow) occurs when the radial head slips through part of the annular ligament"
"What maneuvers are both diagnostic and therapeutic for radial head subluxation (nursemaid's elbow)? Forearm hyperpronation or supination plus flexion"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn with bilateral medial deviation of the forefoot that corrects with passive and active foot movement? Metatarsus adductus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn with rigid medial and upward deviation of the forefoot and hindfoot? Clubfoot (talipes equinovarus)"
"What is the recommended treatment for metatarsus adductus? Reassurance"
"What is the recommended treatment for congenital clubfoot? serial manipulation and casting"
"Why is closed reduction of the hip joint not recommended for slipped capital femoral epiphysis? Can damage tenuous blood supply to femoral head"
"Lyme arthritis presents as an inflammatory monoarticular or asymmetric oligoarticular arthritis, most commonly in the knee"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with bilateral lower extremity pain, especially at night, with a normal physical exam? Growing pains"
"What is the next step in management for a child with suspected growing pains? Reassurance and supportive treatment"
"Osteoid osteoma typically arises in the cortex of the diaphysis of long bones (typically the proximal femur)"
"Osteoblastoma presents with bone pain, especially at night, that DOES NOT resolve with aspirin/NSAIDs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an exclusively breastfed infant that presents with craniotabes, widened wrists, Harrison's subcostal groove, rachitic rosary, and genu varum? Rickets (secondary to vitamin D deficiency)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with Down syndrome that presents with behavioral change, urinary incontinence, and upper motor neuron symptoms (leg spasticity, hyperreflexia, Babinski, clonus)? Atlantoaxial instability"
"Atlantoaxial instability is more common in Down syndrome patients and typically manifests with upper motor neuron symptoms"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with two months of daily fever, pink macular rash, and knee/hip pain that is worse in the morning? Systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis (systemic JIA)"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta may present with blue sclerae due to translucent connective tissue over choroidal veins"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta is caused by mutation in the genes coding for type I collagen"
"What is the recommended treatment for transient synovitis? Rest and NSAIDs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with three months of symmetric arthritis of wrists, knees, and ankles that is worse in the morning? Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (aka junvenile RA)"
"What laboratory findings are associated with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA)? RBCs: decreased (anemia) WBCs: increased (leukocytosis) Platelets: increased (thrombocytosis)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with recent urinary incontinence, several months of back pain worsened by lumbar extension, and a palpable \step-off\\" at the lumbosacral area on physical exam? Spondylolisthesis\""
"Osgood-Schlatter disease presents with focal pain and swelling at the tibial tuberosity, secondary to traction apophysitis of the tibial tubercle"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with head tilting toward one side with a neck mass that does not transilluminate on ultrasound? Congenital muscular torticollis"
"Serum sickness typically presents with fever, urticaria, arthralgia, and lymphadenopathy 1 - 2 weeks after antigen exposure (timing)"
"What drug classes are most commonly associated with serum sickness? β-lactams and sulfa drugs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young Asian child that presents with one week of conjunctivitis, maculopapular rash, lymphadenopathy, hand/feet swelling, and fever? Kawasaki disease"
"Patients with Kawasaki disease have sandpaper-like skin F; Scarlet fever presents with sandpaper-like skin::T/F"
"What nerve injury results in loss of hip abduction (\trendelenberg sign\\")? Superior gluteal nerve injury\""
"What muscle(s) are innervated by the superior gluteal nerve? gluteus medius and minimus"
"Langerhans cell histiocytosis in a child may manifest as a painful, lytic long bone lesion with overlying swelling and hyper-calcemia"
"What is the next step in management for a child in respiratory distress due to foreign body aspiration? Bronchoscopy"
"Empiric treatment of pneumonia in a young child with cystic fibrosis should include coverage against methicillin-resistant S. aureus"
"Chylothorax is a(n) exudative pleural effusion due to disruption of lymphatic flow within the thoracic duct"
"What is the next step in management for a child that presents with suspected anaphylaxis? Intramuscular epinephrine"
"Cystic fibrosis may cause infertility in men due to absence of the vas deferens"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with a scaphoid abdomen with bowel sounds heard over the left lung fields? Congenital diaphragmatic hernia"
"What is the next step in management for a newborn with respiratory distress and hypoxia secondary to a suspected congenital diaphragmatic hernia? Endotracheal intubation"
"Which developmental pathology is characterized by bronchiectasis, recurrent sinusitis, and situs inversus? Kartagener syndrome (primary ciliary dyskinesia)"
"Cystic fibrosis may be differentiated from kartagener syndrome by the presence of pancreatic insufficiency"
"The risk of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome may be reduced by administering maternal antenatal glucocorticoids"
"What is the recommended treatment for a child with a small parapneumonic effusion identified on X-ray with no respiratory distress? Oral antibiotics and outpatient follow-up"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with croup and no stridor at rest? oral corticosteroids and humidified air"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with croup and stridor at rest? oral corticosteroids and nebulized epinephrine"
"In patients with subcutaneous emphysema secondary to severe cough paroxysms, a(n) chest x-ray must be obtained to rule out pneumothorax"
"Healthy infants may lose up to 7% of their birth weight in the first 5 days of life"
"Approximately how many wet diapers should a 5-day-old newborn make per day? > 5 wet diapers/per day"
"Birth weight should be regained by age 10 - 14 days"
"By age 12 months, an infants weight should triple and height should increase by 50%"
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 2 month old? Lift head in prone position"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 2 month old? coos, alert to voice/stimuli"
"What social developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 2 month old? social smile, recognizes parents"
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 4 month old? begins rolling, sits with trunk support"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 4 month old? turns to voice, laughs"
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 6 month old? sits momentarily propped on hands"
"What fine motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 6 month old? transfer objects hand to hand"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 6 month old? responds to name, babbles"
"At what age does an infant typically develop stranger anxiety? 6 months"
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 9 month old? pulls to stand, cruises"
"What fine motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 9 month old? Pincer grasp, holds bottle or cup"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 9 month old? says \dada\\""
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 12 month old? Walks first steps independently, stands well, throws ball"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 12 month old? says first words aside from \mama\\" and \\"dada\\"\""
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in an 18 month old? Kicks a ball, runs"
"What fine motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in an 18 month old? builds a tower with 2 - 4 cubes, removes clothing"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in an 18 month old? 10 - 25 word vocabulary, identifies > 1 body parts"
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 2 year old? begin walking up/down stairs, jumps"
"What fine motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 2 year old? - builds a tower with 6 cubes - copies a(n) line"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 2 year old? > 50 word vocabulary, 2-word phrases"
"What social developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 2 year old? begins parallel play, follow 2-step commands"
"What gross motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 3 year old? rides tricycle, walks up/down stairs with alternating feet"
"What fine motor developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 3 year old? copies a(n) circle, uses utensils"
"What language developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 3 year old? 3-word sentences, speech 75% intelligible"
"What social developmental milestone(s) are expected in a 3 year old? begins imaginative play, knows age/gender"
"At what age does a child typically understand age/gender? 3 - 4 years old"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with scoliosis, long fingers and toes, and upwards lens dislocation? Marfan syndrome"
"What is the gold standard for diagnosis of Duchenne muscular dystrophy? Genetic studies"
"What chromosomal abnormality presents with clenched hands with overlapping fingers? Trisomy 18 (Edwards syndrome)"
"Edwards syndrome is associated with intellectual disability, rocker-bottom feet, low-set ears, and a small jaw (micrognathia)"
"What chromosomal abnormality is associated with intellectual disability, rocker-bottom feet, cleft lip/palate, and small eyes? Trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome)"
"What chromosomal abnormality is associated with intellectual disability, prominent epicanthal folds, and a single palmar crease? Trisomy 21 (Down syndrome)"
"What is the most common GI complication associated with Henoch-Schonlein purpura (asides for the typical abdominal pain)? Ileoileal intussusception"
"What is the underlying cause of nonpitting edema in a newborn patient with Turner syndrome? Congenital lymphedema"
"In Prader-Willi syndrome, the maternal gene is imprinted and the paternal gene is mutated/deleted"
"In Angelman syndrome, the paternal::maternal or paternal gene is imprinted and the maternal::maternal or paternal gene is mutated/deleted"
"The symptoms of Lesch-Nyhan syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \HGPRT\\": H: Hyperuricemia G: Gout P: Pissed off (aggression"
"Kallmann syndrome is characterized by a defective migration of GnRH cells and defective formation of the olfactory bulb"
"Kallmann syndrome presents as infertility in males and amenorrhea in females; anosmia may be present in both sexes"
"Klinefelter syndrome is characterized by a(n) 47,XXY karyotype"
"All sexually active women age < 24 should be screened for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae with NAAT::method"
"What is the next step in management for a child with a grade II systolic ejection murmur that decreases with standing? Reassurance"
"The murmurs of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and mitral valve prolapse increase with standing and the Valsalva maneuver"
"How does the murmur of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and mitral valve prolapse change with the Valsalva maneuver? Increase"
"How does the murmur of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and mitral valve prolapse change with standing? Increase"
"How does the murmur of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and mitral valve prolapse change with squatting? Decrease"
"How does the murmur of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy change with handgrip? Decrease"
"How does the murmur of aortic stenosis change with handgrip? Decrease"
"How do regurgitation murmurs change with squatting and handgrip (e.g. AR, MR, VSD)? Increase"
"How do regurgitation murmurs change with standing and the Valsalva maneuver (e.g. AR, MR, VSD)? Decrease"
"What is the next step in management for a newborn with cyanosis that does not improve with 100% O2 and a continuous machine-like murmur on auscultation? Administer prostaglandin E1"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with fever and signs of heart failure after several days of a URI (runny nose and nasal congestion)? Viral myocarditis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with one month of biphasic stridor that improves with neck extension, but not with prone positioning? Vascular ring"
"Treatment for patients with prolonged QT intervals includes β-blocker therapy and pacemaker placement"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn that presents with upper extremity hypertension and lower extremity hypoperfusion with a systolic interscapular murmur? Coarctation of the aorta"
"Coarctation of the aorta may cause a systolic or continuous murmur in the left interscapular area"
"What congenital heart defect results from thickening of the tunica media in the aortic arch? Coarctation of the aorta"
"The degree of shunting in Tetralogy of Fallot is determined by the degree of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction (from pulmonary stenosis)"
"Tetralogy of Fallot is characterized by a(n) boot-shaped heart on CXR"
"ECG changes indicative of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy include a tall R wave in aVL and a deep S wave in V3"
"What is the next step in management for a well-appearing infant with a harsh, grade III holosystolic murmur heard best over the left lower sternal border? Echocardiography"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn that becomes cyanotic with left axis deviation on ECG and decreased pulmonary markings on CXR? There is a holosytolic murmur. Tricuspid valve atresia"
"ECG in a newborn normally shows physiologic right axis deviation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant with Down syndrome that presents with heart failure and 1) Loud S2 2) Systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border 3) Holosystolic murmur at the left lower sternal border Complete AV septal defect (ASD and VSD)"
"What is the most common heart defect in patients with Down syndrome? Complete AV septal defect"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient that presents with mitral stenosis secondary to suspected rheumatic fever? Start/continue penicillin prophylaxis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with distant heart sounds, JVD, and hypotension with cardiomegaly on X-ray one week after having cardiac surgery? Postpericardiotomy syndrome (due to pericardial effusion after cardiac surgery)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that experiences sudden transient episodes of loss of consciousness with paleness prior to the attack and flushing after? The child is fully alert upon awakening. Adams-Stokes syndrome"
"Universal lipid screening is recommended for children ages 9 - 11 and again between ages 17 - 21"
"When is the hepatitis B vaccine typically administered (three doses)? birth, 2 months, and 6 months"
"When is the rotavirus vaccine typically administered (three doses)? 2 months, 4 months, and 6 months"
"When are the first three doses of the DTaP vaccine typically administered? 2 months, 4 months, 6 months"
"When is the Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine typically administered (three doses)? 2 months, 4 months, and 15 - 18 months"
"When are the first three doses of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) typically administered? 2 months, 4 months, 6 months"
"When are the first three doses of the inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) typically administered? 2 months, 4 months, 6 months"
"What is the minimum age for the influenza vaccine? 6 months"
"When is the MMR vaccine typically administered (two doses)? 1 year and 4 years of age"
"When is the Varicella vaccine typically administered (two doses)? 1 year and 4 years of age"
"When is the first dose of the hepatitis A vaccine typically administered? 12 - 15 months"
"When is the meningococcal vaccine typically administered (two doses)? 11 years and 16 years of age"
"When is the first Tdap vaccine typically administered? 11 years of age"
"The symptoms of laryngotracheitis (croup) often improve upon exposure to cold::temperature air"
"Rapid Diagnosis 13 yo obese male presents with groin pain, limping, and externally rotated hip: Slipped capital femoral epiphysis::Diagnosis?"
"The combination of a vascular tumor (e.g. hemangioma) and consumptive thrombocytopenia is indicative of Kasabach-Merritt syndrome"
"Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis shows up at ~3 weeks with non-bilious projectile vomiting after each feeding. What is the work-up? \olive-size\\" mass in RUQ"
"Rapid Diagnosis 6 week old baby presents with persistent, progressively increasing jaundice with high direct bilirubin and hepatomegaly: Biliary atresia::Diagnosis?"
"What is the mechanism of treatment of central precocious puberty? GnRH agonists (leuprolide)"
"Rapid Diagnosis (Pediatrics) Rapid breast/teste development, pubic hair, and rapid growth. GnRH stimulation test shows dramatic increase in LH: Central precocious puberty::Diagnosis?"
"What is the main worry in patients with central precocious puberty? Decreased height"
"What is the triad of McCune-Albright Syndrome?  Peripheral precocious pubertyIrregular cafe-au-lait skin pigmentation (\Coast of Maine\\")Fibrous dysplasia of bone\""
"What are the indications after birth for positive pressure ventilation? HR <100 or increased respiratory effort (gasping respiratory effort, apnea)"
"Androgen defieciency and excess in Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia Signs of deficiency: XX: Normal genitaliaXY: Female, ambigious Signs of excess:XX: Male external genitalia/virilization (hyperandogenism during embryogenesis), precocious puberty (excess androgens are aromatized to estrogen by aromatase in the granulosa cells of the ovaries)XY: Normal male external genitalia at birth with precocious puberty"
"DiGeorge Syndrome is a defective development of the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal pouches, which leads to hypoplastic thymus and parathyroids"
"Bronchopulmonary dysplasia is a chronic lung disease found in premature infants exposed to prolonged mechanical ventilation and O2 therapy for respiratory distress syndrome"
"What complications can arise from O2 therapy in premature infants with respiratory distress?  RIBRetinopathy of prematurityIntraventricular hemorrhageBronchopulmonary dysplasia"
"In preterm infants, intraventricular hemorrhage generally originates within the germinal matrix, a highly cellular and richly vascularized layer Diagnostic Imaging? Cranial doppler (up to one-half are clinically silent so routine U.S is performed in premature infants)"
"Rapid Diagnosis Acute onset cough in child, SOB, unilateral wheezing, hyperlucency of lung fields:: Foreign body aspiration; diagnose with bronchoscopy::Diagnosis and Treatment?"
"What is the most appropriate first step for a patient that tests positive for HIV but does not want to tell his/her partner? encourage the patient to tell the partner(s) & notify the local health department"
"Can a pregnant woman with capacity refuse cesarean section if vaginal delivery would put the unborn child at risk? Yes"
"What is the probability of a child having hemophilia A if born to a carrier mother and unaffected father? 25%"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African-American woman at 20 weeks gestation that presents with new-onset hirsutism and acne? Pelvic ultrasound reveals an intrauterine gestation consistent with dates and bilateral 8-cm solid ovarian masses. Luteoma"
"Symptomatic maternal luteoma puts a female fetus at a high risk of virilization"
"Elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is associated with neural tube defects, abdominal wall defects, and multiple gestation"
"Decreased maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is associated with aneuploidies (e.g. trisomy 18 & 21)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman at 35 weeks gestation that has experienced leakage of fluid over the past two days? The fluid is nitrazine-positive. Preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM)"
"What is the recommended management for patients with PPROM at < 34 weeks gestation and NO signs of infection/fetal compromise? antibiotics, corticosteroids, and expectant management"
"What is the recommended management for patients with PPROM at > 34 weeks gestation? delivery, antibiotics +/- corticosteroids"
"What is the recommended management for patients with PPROM at < 34 weeks gestation and signs of infection/fetal compromise? corticosteroids, antibiotics, delivery +/- magnesium"
"Maternal complications associated with placental abruption include DIC and hypovolemic shock"
"Indications for prophylactic administration of RhoGAM in Rh(D)- women include women at 28 - 32 weeks gestation or within 72 hours of any procedure in which there is a possibility of feto-maternal blood mixing"
"The presence of amniotic fluid may be detected with the nitrazine and/or fern test"
"Patients in preterm labor at < 32 weeks should receive magnesium sulfate for fetal neuroprotection"
"Healthy patients in preterm labor at < 34 weeks should receive tocolytics to postpone delivery"
"Patients in preterm labor at < 37 weeks should receive corticosteroids to reduce risk of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome"
"Following suction curettage for a hydatidiform mole, β-hCG levels are measured weekly until undetectable and then monthly for 6 months"
"What is the underlying cause of variable decelerations on fetal heart tracing? Fetal cord compression"
"What is the underlying cause of late decelerations on fetal heart tracing? Placental insufficiency"
"Spontaneous abortion is unprovoked pregnancy loss at < 20 weeks gestation and is a common cause of first trimester bleeding"
"Spontaneous abortions are most commonly the result of fetal chromosomal abnormalities"
"What type of miscarriage is characterized by vaginal bleeding and a dilated cervical os without expulsion of products of conception? Inevitable abortion"
"What type of miscarriage is characterized by vaginal bleeding and a closed cervical os with normal fetal cardiac activity? Threatened abortion"
"What type of miscarriage is characterized by no vaginal bleeding and a closed cervical os with no fetal cardiac activity? Missed abortion"
"Physiologic changes during normal pregnancy include a(n) increased GFR and increased basement membrane permeability"
"How do the following laboratory values change during normal pregnancy? BUN: decrease Creatinine: decrease Renal protein excretion: increase"
"How do the following laboratory values change during normal pregnancy? Plasma volume: 50% increase RBC volume: 30% increase"
"Normal pregnancy is associated with a(n) hyper-coagulable state"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman at 35 weeks gestation that presents in preterm labor with the fetus in breech presentation on ultrasound? Cesarean delivery"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman at 35 weeks gestation that presents in preterm labor with a fetus in vertex presentation on ultrasound? Expectant management"
"Preeclampsia is defined as hypertension with proteinuria or end-organ dysfunction after the 20th week of gestation"
"Maternal hypertensive crisis is defined as a SBP > 160 or DBP > 110 mmHg for > 15 minutes"
"Eclampsia is defined as preeclampsia with new-onset seizures"
"Treatment for eclampsia includes blood pressure control, magnesium sulfate for seizure prevention, and expedient delivery"
"Symmetric fetal growth restriction begins in the first trimester and is typically caused by chromosomal abnormalities"
"Asymmetric fetal growth restriction begins in the second/third trimester and is associated with conditions that cause placental insufficiency (e.g. hypertension, diabetes)"
"Chronic hypertension is a blood pressure > 140/90 mmHg before the 20th week of gestation"
"Universal screening for group B Streptococcus colonization is typically done by vaginal and rectal culture at 35 - 37 weeks gestation"
"What is the prophylactic agent of choice for pregnant women who test positive for group B Streptococcus? Intrapartum penicillin"
"Labor and vaginal delivery are contraindicated after a(n) classical cesarean delivery or extensive myomectomy"
"Evidence of a retained placenta includes an echogenic mass or thickened endometrial stripe on ultrasound"
"Maternal contraindications to breastfeeding include active untreated tuberculosis, varicella infection, HIV and herpetic breast lesions"
"Maternal contraindications to breastfeeding include chemo- or radiation therapy and illicit drug use"
"Examination findings consistent with uterine rupture include the presence of abdominally palpable fetal parts and/or the loss of fetal station"
"Uterine rupture classically occurs in a woman with prior uterine surgery"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman that is rubella-nonimmune? Immediate postpartum vaccination (e.g. MMR)"
"All pregnant women should be screened for gestational diabetes mellitus at 24 - 28 weeks gestation"
"What is the target fasting blood glucose level in patients with gestational diabetes mellitus? < 95 mg/dL"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with gestational diabetes that continue to have elevated glucose levels despite lifestyle modifications? insulin or oral medications (e.g. metformin)"
"After instructing the laboring patient to breath and not push, management of shoulder dystocia includes flexing the hips toward the abdomen (McRoberts manuever) and application of suprapubic pressure"
"When is a non-stress test is considered reactive (normal)? There are at least 2 fetal heart rate accelerations in 20 minutes"
"Placenta previa is attachment of the placenta to the lower uterine segment over the internal cervical os"
"Second stage arrest of labor is defined as no fetal descent after pushing for > 3 hours (nulliparous) or > 2 hours (multiparous)"
"What is the most common cause of second stage arrest of labor? Cephalopelvic disproportion, secondary to fetal malposition (e.g. occiput transverse)"
"The optimal fetal positioning is occiput anterior"
"The first-trimester combined test analyzes the risk for fetal trisomy 18 & 21 by measuring maternal serum pregnancy-associated plasma protein and β-hCG, as well as nuchal translucency on ultrasound"
"Amniocentesis may be performed between 15 to 22 weeks"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman at 12 weeks gestation with an abnormally elevated β-hCG level and increased nuchal thickness on ultrasound? Chorionic villous sampling (CVS)"
"Complications of inadequate weight gain during pregnancy include fetal growth restriction and preterm delivery"
"What are the current recommendations for influenza vaccination during pregnancy? All pregnant women should receive the inactivated (injectable) influenza vaccine"
"What is the recommended treatment for a pregnant patient with a penicillin allergy that is diagnosed with syphilis? IM penicillin (patients need to be desensitized)"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman at 34 weeks gestation that presents with decreased fetal movement? Non-stress testing reveals a normal FHR but is non-reactive despite vibroacoustic stimulation. biophysical profile or contraction stress test"
"Can a non-reactive non-stress test effectively rule in fetal acidemia? No"
"An abnormal biophysical profile score (0 - 4) is consistent with fetal hypoxia due to placental dysfunction"
"Oligohydramnios is characterized by an amniotic fluid index < 5 cm or a single deepest pocket < 2 cm"
"Symptoms of magnesium toxicity include somnolence, respiratory depression, and hypo-reflexia"
"Symptoms of magnesium toxicity include hypo-calcemia and cardiac arrest"
"What is the first-line treatment for magnesium toxicity? Calcium gluconate"
"Which type(s) of decelerations may be indicative of fetal hypoxia and/or acidosis? late and recurrent variable decelerations"
"What are the infectious complications of atopic dermatitis (eczema)? ::4"
"Cell-free fetal DNA testing can be ordered at > 10 weeks gestation"
"Aspirin should not be given to patients <19, especially those with febrile illnesses, except for which diseases? Kawasaki, Juvenile RA"
"HELLP syndrome is a potential manifestation of severe preeclampsia characterized by a triad of hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelets"
"Patients with HELLP syndrome may present with severe RUQ abdominal pain due to liver swelling with distention of the hepatic (Glisson's) capsule"
"Fetal complications of preeclampsia include oligohydramnios and fetal growth restriction due to chronic uteroplacental insufficiency"
"Normal postpartum changes include shivering, lochia, and a(n) contracted uterus (relaxed or contracted)"
"What is the most common risk factor for placental abruption? Hypertension"
"Evaluation of a newborn with fetal growth restriction at delivery includes histopathologic examination of the placenta to assess for infection and/or infarction"
"What is the best screening test for gestational diabetes mellitus? 50g 1-hour glucose challenge"
"What is the recommended treatment for post-stroke depression? SSRIs and/or psychotherapy"
"What is the next step in management for a depressed patient with a partial response to SSRI therapy that complaints of fatigue and weight gain? Add bupropion"
"What psychiatric disorder is more common in patients with oppositional defiant disorder? ADHD"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that experiences panic attacks while driving over bridges for the past year? The patient takes great effort to avoid bridges. Specific phobia"
"In addition to lithium and valproate, first-line maintenance treatments for bipolar disorder include lamotrigine and quetiapine"
"Risk of prescription opioid misuse may be reduced by regular patient follow-up, random urine drug screens, and by reviewing the state's prescription drug-monitoring program data"
"Fluoxetine is an SSRI with a relatively long half-life and thus must be discontinued 5 weeks before initiating an MAOI"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that develops fatigue, insomnia, and myalgias after abruptly discontinuing paroxetine due to undesirable side effects? Restart paroxetine and taper gradually over several weeks"
"What is the treatment of choice for an adult with suspected ADHD and a history of substance use disorder? Atomoxetine"
"What changes detected by maternal quadruple screen are indicative of trisomy 21 (Down syndrome)? AFP: decreased Estriol: decreased β-hCG: increased Inhibin A: increased"
"What changes detected by maternal quadruple screen are indicative of trisomy 18 (Edward syndrome)? AFP: decreased Estriol: decreased β-hCG: decreased Inhibin A: normal"
"Late- and post-term pregnancies are commonly complicated by oligo-hydramnios"
"External cephalic version is relatively contraindicated in patients with decreased amniotic fluid"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman at 28 weeks gestation that presents in labor for a fetus diagnosed with anhydramnios and anencephaly? Allow spontaneous vaginal delivery"
"What is the recommended management for a patient at 28 weeks gestation with the fetus in transverse lie position? The patient desires a vaginal delivery. Expectant management"
"Hyperemesis gravidarum is more common in patients with multiple gestation, hydatidiform mole, or history of GERD"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman with a blood glucose > 140 mg/dL 1 hour after a 50g oral glucose load? 100g 3-hour glucose challenge"
"Gestational diabetes is a result of pancreatic β-cell hyperplasia and increased insulin resistance secondary to elevated levels of human placental lactogen during the third trimester of pregnancy"
"Adequate contractions are defined as generation of > 200 Montevideo units (MVUs) in 10 minutes"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a laboring patient with > 6 cm dilation that experiences abnormally slow cervical dilation? Protraction of active labor"
"What is the recommended management for a patient with protraction of active labor? Oxytocin"
"Maternal adaptations to pregnancy include a(n) increased tidal volume and normal respiratory rate"
"What acid-base disturbance is physiological during normal pregnancy? Chronic respiratory alkalosis"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman at 32 weeks gestation with gestational hypertension and a biophysical profile score of 6 at today's visit? Repeat biophysical profile in 24 hours"
"Ovarian cyst rupture is commonly precipitated by strenuous activity or sexual intercourse"
"What is the next step in management for a 45-year-old woman that presents with insomnia, fatigue, weight gain, amenorrhea, and an enlarged uterus? measure hCG level"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome often presents in young, obese women with oligo- or amenorrhea and symptoms of androgen excess"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for menstrual irregularity due to polycystic ovarian syndrome? Oral contraceptives"
"Alcohol consumption is a dose-dependent risk factor for breast cancer"
"What cause of vaginitis is characterized by a thin, white discharge with a fishy odor and no vaginal inflammation? Bacterial vaginosis (Gardnerella vaginalis infection)"
"Which cause(s) of vaginitis are associated with an elevated pH (> 4.5)? Bacterial vaginosis and trichomoniasis"
"Which cause(s) of vaginitis are associated with a normal pH (3.4 - 4.5)? Candida vaginitis"
"What is the recommended treatment for trichomoniasis (Trichomonas infection)? metronidazole for both the patient and the sexual partner"
"What microscopy finding is characteristic of trichomoniasis (Trichomonas infection)? Motile protozoa"
"What cause of vaginitis is characterized by a thick, white discharge and vaginal inflammation? Candida vaginitis (Candida albicans infection)"
"What is the recommended treatment for Candida vaginitis? Oral fluconazole"
"Oral contraceptives are associated with hypertension::blood pressure"
"Oral contraceptives are associated with a(n) hyper-coagulable state"
"Acute mastitis is due to bacterial infection of the breast, most commonly with Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the recommended treatment for an asymptomatic Bartholin duct cyst? Observation - spontaneous drainage and resolution may occur"
"The \three D's\\" of endometriosis are dysmenorrhea"
"Congenital aromatase deficiency in newborn females is characterized by normal internal genitalia and ambiguous external genitalia"
"Aromatase deficiency is associated with polycystic ovaries on ultrasound due to high concentrations of gonadotropins"
"The diagnosis of a palpable breast mass can only be confirmed with a(n) biopsy"
"What kidney injury is classically associated with sickle cell trait? Renal papillary necrosis"
"Fecal retention (constipation) in infants can cause what urologic complication? Recurrent cystitis (UTIs)"
"BRCA mutations result in significantly increased risk of breast and ovarian cancer"
"BRCA-positive individuals are recommended to have a(n) prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy to decrease incidence of ovarian cancer"
"What is the most common neurologic sequelae of meningitis? Hearing loss All children with bacterial meningitis should have close developmental f/u and audiologic testing"
"Rapid Diagnosis Infant with closed fists with flexion contracture of fingers, low set ears, micrognathia Trisomy 18 (Edwards)"
"Rapid Diagnosis Microcephaly/holoprosencephaly, cleft lips, cutis aplasia (absence of epidermis over scalp), microphthalmia (small orbits) Trisomy 13 (Patau)"
"What is the next step in management for a young woman that presents with diffuse periumbilical abdominal pain that then localizes to the right lower quadrant? Her LMP was one month ago. Pregnancy test"
"Rapid Diagnosis Tight anal sphincter with explosive release of stools and air upon removal of finger Hirschsprung Disease (\squirt sign\\")\""
"Potential complications of cervical conization include cervical stenosis, cervical incontinence, and preterm delivery"
"Just prior to ovulation, cervical mucus increases in quantity and becomes more watery and penetrable by sperm"
"Pap testing may be discontinued in patients age ≥ 65 with no history of CIN 2 or higher and 3 consective negative Pap tests or 2 consecutive negative co-testing results"
"If a patient has a history of CIN 2 or higher, Pap testing should continue for another 20 years after detection"
"Pap smears without HPV co-testing are repeated every 3 years beginning at age 21"
"Pap smears with HPV co-testing are repeated every 5 years beginning at age 30"
"Antibiotic therapy for hospitalized patients with pelvic inflammatory disease includes IV cefoxitin or cefotetan plus oral doxycycline"
"Outpatient antibiotic therapy for patients with pelvic inflammatory disease includes IM ceftriaxone plus oral doxycycline"
"Daughters of women exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) during pregnancy are at increased risk of developing clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina and cervix"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young sexually active woman that presents with multiple papular lesions around the vagina? Some lesions bleed with manipulation. Condylomata acuminata (genital warts)"
"Lack of menses is considered normal at age < 15 if development of secondary sex characteristics has been appropriate"
"What is typically the first sign of puberty in girls? Breast development (thelarche)"
"What is the next step in management for a 14-year-old girl that presents with lack of menses? Breast and pubic hair are tanner stage 3. Reassurance and re-evaluation"
"Candida vaginitis is more common in patients with recent corticosteroid or antibiotic use"
"Which genital infection is characterized by tender, large ulcers with a grayish exudate and severe lymphadenopathy? Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid)"
"Which genital infection is characterized by small, painless ulcers that can progress to painful, fluctuant adenitis (buboes)? Chlamydia trachomatis L1-L3 (lymphogranuloma venereum)"
"What is the preferred test to diagnose HSV infection? PCR testing"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile middle-aged woman that presents with unilateral breast warmth, erythema, and swelling refractory to antibiotics? Inflammatory breast carcinoma"
"Menopausal women with vasomotor symptoms and contraindications to HRT are typically managed with non-hormonal therapy, such as SSRIs"
"Evaluation of atypical glandular cells on Pap test in women > 35 years old includes colposcopy, endocervical curettage, and endometrial biopsy"
"Infertility in patients age < 35 is defined as the failure to achieve pregnancy after 12 months of regular, unprotected sexual intercourse"
"What is the most accurate way to determine estimated gestational age? ultrasound crown-rump measurement in the first trimester"
"What is the definitive treatment for endometriosis? Hysterectomy and oophorectomy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a female athlete that presents with amenorrhea and decreased FSH, LH, and estrogen on laboratory exam? Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (hypothalamic amenorrhea)"
"The pathogenesis of hypogonadotropic hypogonadism involves loss of pulsatile GnRH secretion"
"How does bone density change in patients with hypothalamic amenorrhea? Decreased (e.g. osteopenia)"
"Primary genital herpes is associated with high risk for recurrence, with less frequent recurrences over time in immunocompetent individuals"
"What is the most common gynecologic malignancy in the U.S? Endometrial cancer"
"What is the recommended treatment for endometrial carcinoma? Hysterectomy +/- chemo- or radiation therapy"
"The risk of endometrial hyperplasia/cancer is directly related to unopposed estrogen exposure"
"One risk factor for endometrial cancer is obesity due to increased peripheral conversion of androgens into estrone"
"6 mo. old boy presents with swollen testicle that is worse mid-day and better when he wakes up. Exam shows a positive transillumination. What is the treatment?  Communicating hydrocele: reassurance and follow up (should resolve by 6 months)Surgical excision of sac if not resolved by 1 year"
"What is the first-line treatment for vulvar lichen sclerosus? High-potency topical corticosteroids (e.g. clobetasol)"
"What is the recommended treatment for confirmed chlamydia infection? Azithromycin"
"Common side effects of the injectable medroxyprogesterone contraceptive are vaginal bleeding/spotting and weight gain"
"Progestin-containing IUDs work by thickening cervical mucus and impairing implantation"
"Stress urinary incontinence is often associated with urethral hyper-mobility"
"Most current guidelines suggest routine screening mammography every two years beginning at age > 50"
"What race/ethnicity is associated with the highest risk of breast cancer? White race"
"Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator associated with increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia/cancer"
"Patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome have increased risk of endometrial carcinoma"
"What is the recommended treatment for a symptomatic Bartholin duct cyst? Incision and drainage, followed by Word catheter placement"
"Lichen simplex chronicus presents as leukoplakia with thick, leathery vulvar skin"
"The absence of bleeding following a progestin withdrawal challenge may be indicative of low estrogen levels"
"Lactational amenorrhea occurs due to high levels of prolactin, which has an inhibitory effect on the production of GnRH"
"What is the recommended treatment for a breastfeeding woman with acute mastitis? analgesics, breastfeeding, and antibiotics"
"The main function of hCG during pregnancy is to maintain the corpus luteum"
"What is the first step of diagnosis of a UTI in infants in diapers? Straight catheterization to obtain UA and urine culture"
"Infertility in patients age > 35 is defined as the failure to achieve pregnancy after 6 months of regular, unprotected sexual intercourse"
"Androgen insensitivity syndrome is characterized by normal breast development *bonus: why?"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with primary amenorrhea and the following physical exam: absent uterus/upper vagina and normal ovaries, pubic hair, breast development Müllerian agenesis"
"Selective estrogen receptor modulators increase the risk for venous thromboembolism by increasing protein C resistance"
"An intrauterine pregnancy is typically seen on TVUS with β-hCG levels > 1500-2000 IU/L"
"Recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis in a patient warrants evaluation for underlying diabetes mellitus"
"What is the next step in management for a woman with bilateral, milky nipple discharge that is guaiac negative? Serum prolactin, TSH, and pregnancy test"
"How can hypothyroidism lead to hyperprolactinemia? Stimulation of prolactin secretion by TRH (thyrotropin-releasing hormone)"
"What is the most common side effect of combined oral contraceptives? Breakthrough bleeding"
"Indications for endometrial biopsy include abnormal uterine bleeding in women age < 45 with obesity and/or anovulation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a morbidly obese woman that presents with amenorrhea and normal pituitary hormone levels (e.g. FSH, LH, prolactin)? Anovulation"
"Risk factors for cervical cancer include early onset of sexual activity, high-risk HPV infection, immunosuppression, and tobacco use"
"Biopsy of breast tissue with fat necrosis typically reveals calcifications, foamy macrophages, and fat globules"
"What is the recommended follow-up following removal of a breast lesion found to be fat necrosis? Routine follow-up"
"Adenomyosis typically causes dysmenorrhea and heavy menstrual bleeding in multiparous women > 40 years of age"
"Methods for lactation suppression include a supportive bra, avoidance of nipple stimulation, application of ice packs to the breast, and administration of NSAIDs"
"Can women with chronic hepatitis C infection breastfeed? Yes"
"What is the recommended antepartum treatment for a pregnant woman with HIV? Combined anti-retroviral therapy (ART)"
"What is the recommended intrapartum treatment for a pregnant woman with an HIV viral load > 1000 copies/mL? ART; zidovudine; and cesarean delivery at 38 weeks"
"What is the recommended intrapartum treatment for a pregnant woman with an HIV viral load < 1000 copies/mL? ART and vaginal delivery"
"What is the recommended treatment for an infant born to a mother with an HIV viral load > 1000 copies/mL? Multi-drug ART and zidovudine for > 6 weeks"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman with an active genital HSV infection that presents in labor? Cesarean delivery"
"First-line treatment options for asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy include cephalexin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, and nitrofurantoin"
"One way in which thyroid hormone production is increased during pregnancy is through direct stimulation of TSH receptors by hCG"
"One way in which thyroid hormone production is increased during pregnancy is through increased estrogen-induced synthesis of thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG)"
"Secondary amenorrhea is defined as the absence of menses for > 3 cycles or > 6 months in women who menstruated previously"
"Postpartum thyroiditis is similar to painless thyroiditis, but is diagnosed if symptoms occur within one year of childbirth"
"What are the major causes of acute severe anemia in sickle cell? What is the main differentiating feature? Aplastic crisis (Parvo B19): ↓ reticulocyte count Splenic sequestration (Vaso-occlusion): ↑ reticulocyte count"
"What is the recommended treatment for a newborn with neonatal thyrotoxicosis? Methimazole and β-blocker until condition self-resolves"
"Membranous nephropathy is associated with which infectious diseases? Hepatitis B, C"
"The Kleihauer-Betke test may be used to determine if a higher dose of anti-D immune globulin is needed after a procedure or delivery"
"The first-line agents for management of essential hypertension during pregnancy are labetalol and methyldopa"
"A premature child has decreased tone, seizures, and rapidly increasing head circumference with bulging anterior fontanelle. A head ultrasound is shown below. What is the most likely diagnosis? Intraventricular hemorrhage"
"What is the most likely diagnosis for precocious puberty in patient with: Normal::Normal/Advanced bone age: Premature thelarche or adrenarche Advanced::Normal/Advanced bone age: Peripheral PC (low LH), Central PC (high LH)"
"The most common cause of sepsis during pregnancy is acute pyelonephritis"
"What is the recommended treatment for a young patient with infertility secondary to fibroids? Myomectomy"
"Non-invasive diagnosis of fetal anemia may be made by middle cerebral artery peak systolic velocity on Doppler ultrasound"
"A progesterone level > 25 ng/mL suggests a healthy intrauterine pregnancy"
"A progesterone level < 5 ng/mL suggests an abnormal or extrauterine pregnancy"
"What is the most effective treatment for menopausal hot flashes? Hormone replacement therapy"
"What is the recommended treatment for a depressed newborn born via vaginal delivery with meconium-stained amniotic fluid? Intubate the trachea and suction meconium from beneath the glottis"
"What class of uterotonics is contraindicated in patients with severe or uncontrolled asthma? Prostaglandin F2-alpha drugs"
"What adverse effect is associated with erythromycin in children less than 1 year of age? Pyloric stenosis"
"Renal pelvis and ureter dilation during pregnancy occurs due to compression by the uterus and ovarian vein"
"Renal pelvis and ureter dilation during pregnancy occurs more commonly on the right side"
"Fetal fibronectin is useful for its very high negative predictive value in assessing for preterm labor"
"Postpartum endometritis is 5-10x more common in patients with Cesarean delivery"
"Uterine atony unresponsive to medical management may respond to a(n) B-lynch compression suture during exploratory laparotomy"
"Twin-twin transfusion syndrome most commonly occurs in mono::mono/di-chorionic, di::mono/di-amniotic twins"
"The risk of preterm labor during a multiple gestation pregnancy may be reduced with adequate early weight gain"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a breastfeeding mother with bilateral red, shiny, painful nipples? Candidiasis of the nipple"
"What is the recommended treatment for pruritus gravidarum refractory to antihistamines and topical emollients? Ursodeoxycholic acid"
"Fetuses are most prone to radiation-induced intellectual disability between 8 - 15 weeks"
"Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy in postmenopausal women may result in re-emergence of menopausal symptoms due to an abrupt decrease in circulating androgens"
"A(n) low amniotic fluid glucose is an indicator of intra-amniotic infection"
"What is the onset and treatment of Gonorrhea conjunctivitis?  2-7 d → CeftriaxonePpx = topical erythromycin Chlamydia?  5-14 d → oral erythromycin"
"Rapid Diagnosis Newborn with cataracts, failed hearing test, and continuous heart murmur Congenital Rubella"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a self-limited pruritic exanthem in young adults that begins as a large \herald patch\\" followed by clusters of small lesions oriented along lines of tension in a \\"Christmas tree\\" pattern? Pityriasis Rosea\""
"What is the recommended treatment for an elderly patient with severe pelvic organ prolapse? Colpocleisis"
"Medical abortion is associated with higher blood loss than surgical abortion"
"What medical therapy may be used for short-term treatment of symptomatic fibroids refractory to OCPs and NSAIDs? GnRH agonists (e.g. leuprolide)"
"What is the most common type of breech presentation? Frank"
"A pregnant mother brings in her son who ingested a bunch of tablets. He has vomiting and abdominal pain. Blood pressure is 80/50 and labs show low Hb and HCO3- = 18. What is the diagnosis and treatment?  Iron toxicity 2/2 prenatal vitamin ingestion; tx with deferoxamine (iron chelator)Clinical features: Abdominal pain/gastroenteritis, shock, vomiting, metabolic acidosis"
"Rapid Diagnosis Tall, fair-skinned and thin girl with hyperextensive skin and joint hyperlaxity develops sudden-onset weakness; has developmental delay too: Homocystinuria with marfanoid body habitus::Diagnosis?"
"Takayasu arteritis may present with pain in the upper extremities that is worse with activity"
"Child with an imaginary friend considered normal? Yes"
"Rapid Diagnosis Scarlet Fever (\Sandpaper Rash\\") --> eventually desquamates\""
"What is the treatment in a young patient with fever, pharyngitis, petechiae on his tonsils, large erythematous tongue, with sandpaper rash? The rash eventually desquamates (peels). Penicillin (Scarlet Fever)"
"What enzyme is typically elevated in patients with hemolytic anemia? Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)"
"What blood smear finding is consistent with autoimmune hemolytic anemia? Spherocytes"
"Autoimmune hemolytic anemia is differentiated from hereditary spherocytosis by a positive Coombs test"
"What is the recommended treatment to reverse the effects of heparin? Protamine sulfate"
"Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction is distinguished from febrile non-hemolytic reaction by the presence of a(n) positive direct antiglobulin (Coombs) test"
"Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction is distinguished from febrile non-hemolytic reaction by the presence of plasma free hemoglobin > 25 mg/dL"
"What is shown by the red arrow? Thymus (\sail sign\\"); visible on CXR in children <3 (opacities in this location in older children should raise concern for pneumonia/malignancy) What are the differentials if this were to be absent? \\"Absent thymic shadow\\" → Di George"
"What ophthalmologic findings are seen with Neurofibromatosis 1? Lisch nodules and optic gliomas"
"In the United States, a PPD is considered positive in those with intermediate risk of TB if the induration size is > 10 mm (e.g. healthcare workers, IVDA, recent immigrants)"
"A PPD is considered positive in those with high risk of TB if the induration size is > 5 mm (e.g. HIV-positive patients, immunosuppressed patients, recent contacts of known TB case)"
"Severe Vibrio vulnificus infection is more common in those with liver disease, especially hereditary hemochromatosis"
"Intrapartum penicillin should be administered to those with unknown GBS status if they are < 37 weeks gestation, have intrapartum fever, or have ROM for ≥ 18 hours"
"Rapid Identification Erythema marginatum (Acute Rheumatic Fever) → evanescent pink rash with sharp edges"
"Baby < 28 days has a fever >100.4 is sepsis until proven otherwise (irritability, poor feeding, lethargy) Most common bugs? GBS, E. coli, Listeria Empiric treatment? Ampicillin, gentamycin"
"Rapid Diagnosis Newborn with microcephaly, periventricular calcifications, deafness, thrombocytopenia, petechiae CMV; tx with ganciclovir"
"One risk factor for osteoporosis is low body weight"
"What is the recommended treatment for a newborn born to a mother with active Varicella zoster? Varicella-zoster immune globulin"
"Combined estrogen/progestin therapy for vasomotor postmenopausal symptoms increases the risk for breast cancer"
"Recurrent miscarriage due to factor V Leiden is thought to be due to thrombosis of the uteroplacental vasculature"
"What vitamin deficiency is characterized by swollen gums, petechiae, and impaired wound healing? Vitamin C deficiency (scurvy)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with signs of increased intracranial pressure one day after a large ischemic stroke? Hemorrhagic transformation"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents one day after an ischemic stroke with signs of hemorrhagic transformation? Non-contrast CT scan of the head"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with unilateral arm pain and dizziness while exercising? Physical exam reveals blood pressure discrepancy between the left and right arm. Subclavian steal syndrome"
"Subclavian steal syndrome is associated with a significantly lower brachial systolic blood pressure in the affected arm"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on post-MI day 5 that presents with sudden-onset cardiogenic shock and a harsh holosystolic murmur at the left sternal border with a palpable thrill? Interventricular septal rupture"
"True ventricular aneurysm is a complication that may occur months after an MI and increases risk for mural thrombus"
"The murmur of pulmonic stenosis is characterized by a systolic ejection click followed by a crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur over the left second intercostal space"
"Pulmonic stenosis is associated with widened splitting of the S2 heart sound, especially during inspiration"
"Inability to lift the skin on the dorsum of the second toe is highly specific for lymphedema"
"What dermatologic pathology is characterized by widespread thinning, easily pulled out hair with normal appearing scalp and hair shafts, typically after a stressful event? Telogen effluvium"
"Most infections within the first month following liver transplantation are due to bacterial pathogens"
"Most infections during months 1 - 6 following liver transplantation are due to opportunistic pathogens"
"What is the next step in management for a diabetic patient taking metformin and nightly insulin glargine that presents with an elevated hemoglobin A1c despite normal fasting glucose levels? Add rapid-acting mealtime insulin"
"Patients with testicular cancer may present with low back pain due to para-aortic (retroperitoneal) lymphadenopathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of IBD that presents with a painful, red eye with tearing and decreased visual acuity? Anterior uveitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient that presents with dry eyes and dry mouth? ANA is negative. Age-related sicca syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older patient with no smoking history that presents with chronic, progressive dyspnea and dry cough? History and physical exam are unremarkable. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis"
"Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis eventually results in diffuse fibrosis with end-stage 'honeycomb' lung on CT"
"Colchicine is approved for both treatment and prevention of secondary (AA) amyloidosis"
"Abortive treatment for cluster headaches includes 100% O2 (preferred) or sumatriptan"
"Prophylactic treatment for cluster headaches may include verapamil or lithium"
"Diagnosis of C. difficile colitis is made by stool assay for toxins"
"Benzodiazepine use in the elderly may be associated with paradoxical agitation, which is characterized by confusion and aggression, typically within one hour of use"
"What initial imaging study is recommended for patients with erythema nodosum? Chest X-ray"
"Indications for corticosteroid use in Pneumocystis pneumonia treatment (in addition to TMP-SMX) include PaO2 < 70 mmHg or A-a gradient > 35 mmHg"
"The major risk factor for development of actinic keratosis is chronic sun exposure"
"What is the next step in management for a depressed patient with an inadequate response to SSRI therapy after 8 weeks? Switch to another first-line treatment"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with acute symptoms of major depression, cognitive deficits, and a score of 25 on mini-mental status exam? Pseudodementia; treat with SSRI"
"Patients receiving parenteral nutrition are more likely to experience hyper-glycemia than those with enteral nutrition"
"Pleural effusion secondary to tuberculosis is characterized by very elevated protein, lymphocytic leukocytosis, and low glucose levels"
"Nasogastric tube feeding is associated with increased risk for aspiration pneumonia"
"All forms of poorly controlled maternal diabetes are associated with increased risk of fetal lung immaturity, preterm delivery, and macrosomia"
"Peripheral arterial disease is characterized by exertional leg pain and dermal atrophy (thin/shiny skin, loss of hair)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with two days of lethargy and a serum Ca2+ of 14 mg/dL? Hypercalcemia of malignancy"
"What is the most common cause of secondary hyperparathyroidism? Chronic kidney disease"
"Secondary hyperparathyroidism over time often results in parathyroid hyperplasia"
"Initial treatment for psoriasis includes high-potency glucocorticoids or vitamin D derivatives (e.g. calcipotriene)"
"What is the first-line treatment for symptomatic chronic lymphocytic leukemia? Rituximab (anti-CD20 antibody)"
"Acute cholecystitis typically presents with a triad of fever, leukocytosis, and sudden RUQ or epigastric pain with radiation to the shoulder or back"
"Renal insufficiency secondary to multiple myeloma is most commonly due to light chain cast nephropathy with renal tubular injury"
"The seizures of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy typically occur upon awakening"
"Lennox-Gaustaut syndrome is typically diagnosed in children age < 7 with a wide array of seizure types accompanied by mental retardation"
"Androgenic symptoms associated with Cushing syndrome (e.g. acne, irregular menses) are seen with ACTH-dependent hypercortisolism"
"What is the most sensitive initial test for malabsorption syndromes? Stool fat assay"
"What murmur is best heard with the patient in left lateral decubitus positioning and holding the breath in full expiration? Mitral stenosis"
"What is the next step in management for a child that presents with a runny nose, cough, and pharyngeal vesicles? Reassurance and observation"
"Myelodysplastic syndrome is primarily seen in older adults and those who have had previous chemo- or radiation therapy"
"Myelodysplastic syndrome is associated with macrocytic anemia, leukopenia, and/or thrombocytopenia"
"What is the first-line therapy for urge incontinence? Bladder training"
"Nail clubbing (thyroid acropachy) in the setting of hyperthyroidism is specific for Graves disease"
"Opioid intoxication causes decreased respiratory rate and decreased tidal volume"
"What is the mechanism of action of ergot alkaloids (may be used for the treatment of migraines)? Serotonin (5-HT) agonist"
"Cataracts may result in loss of the red reflex"
"UTI with sterile pyuria suggests urethritis due to Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"What combination of drugs provides a mortality benefit for African-American patients with CHF with LV dysfunction? Hydralazine and nitrates"
"Central cyanosis involves highly vascularized tissues (e.g. lips, mucous membranes) and is caused by low arterial O2 saturation"
"Peripheral cyanosis typically involves the distal extremies and is caused by increased O2 extraction due to sluggish blood flow"
"What is the most effective intervention to slow progression of diabetic nephropathy? Tight blood pressure control"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that develops a blanching maculopapular rash after four days of a high fever? Roseola (HHV-6 infection)"
"What is the most common cause of hemoptysis in the pediatric population? Cystic fibrosis-associated bronchiectasis"
"Treatment of salicylate intoxication includes alkalinization of the urine with sodium bicarbonate"
"Does acute myeloid leukemia typically present with lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly? No (rare)"
"No chest rise during administration of PPV to a neonate, next step? Intubation"
"APGAR scores recorded when? Acceptable range of scores? 1 minute, then 5 and 10 minutes → Continued if needed Acceptable between 7-10/10"
"Probable underlying etiology of heart rate < 100 in a neonate? < 60? Treatments for both? Pulse 60-100: Likely respiratory → positive pressure ventilation (PPV) Pulse < 60: Likely cardiac → CPR (3:1 ratio; give epi)"
"Treatment for neonate with acceptable heart rate (>100), but oxygen saturation below goal? Increasd FiO2 (blow-by)"
"CPR ratio in neonates? 3:1 ratio of chest compressions:breaths"
"How is epinephrine administered in neonatal CPR? Catheterization of the umbilical vein"
"Categories of the APGAR score? Apperance Pulse Grimace ActivityRespiration"
"Clues in a vignette that an APGAR score is (slightly) abnormal? 1 point each: Acrocyanosis HR <100 Irregular respirations"
"The umbilicus should contain 1 artery and 2 veins F - 2 arteries and 1 vein::T/F"
"What are the three prophylactic shots/drops for neonates? Vitamin K Hepatitis B Conjunctavitis prophylaxis (erythromycin)"
"Neonate that required positive pressure ventilation is now tachypneic? Pneumothorax::Diagnosis? May be able to just observe/not necessarily require a chest tube::Treatment?"
"Differential for neonate with tachypnea? (5) Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) Pneumothorax (after requiring PPV) Congenital heart defects Sepsis"
"What is seen for activity in the APGAR score? 0: No activity 1: Flexion 2: Resist extension"
"β-blockers are a standard therapy in myocardial infarction but should be avoided in patients with decompensated CHF or bradycardia"
"Is a unilateral pleural effusion secondary to congestive heart failure more likely to be right-sided or left-sided? Right-sided (27%)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a diabetic patient that presents with ptosis and a \down and out\\" pupil that is normal-sized and reactive? Ischemic CN III palsy\""
"What acid-base disturbance is classically found in patients with laxative abuse? Metabolic alkalosis"
"Intrinsic renal failure is most commonly due to acute tubular necrosis (ATN)"
"What acid-base disorder does uremia cause? ↑ anion gap metabolic acidosis"
"The serum BUN/Creatinine ratio in prerenal azotemia will be > 20"
"Urine osmolarity in prerenal failure = > 500 mOsm/kg Urine osmolarity in intrinsic renal failure = < 350 mOsm/kg"
"What are the \Three D's\\" of prerenal azotemia? Diuresis Diarrhea Dehydration\""
"Tertiary hyperparathyroidism is when the parathyroid gland becomes autonomous from constant stimulation"
"Mild cognitive impairment is differentiated from normal aging by modest decline in cognitive function with a MoCA score < 26/30"
"What is the location of bone thinning in renal osteodystrophy? Subperiosteal region"
"What is the cause of anemia in renal failure? ↓ EPO"
"Galactocele is typically characterized as a soft, mobile, non-tender::tender or non-tender subareolar mass"
"What is the recommended treatment for neurologic or cardiac manifestations of Lyme disease? IV ceftriaxone"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with severe cancer pain refractory to short-acting opioids? Add a long-acting opioid agent"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with chest pain and a new left bundle branch block on ECG? Acute MI"
"What is the most commonly acquired congenital infection? Cytomegalovirus (CMV)"
"Management of mild-moderate sunburn is typically supportive (e.g. oral NSAIDs, topical aloe or cool compresses)"
"NSAIDs should not be used for treatment of gout in patients taking anticoagulants"
"What is the recommended treatment for gout in patients with cirrhosis or congestive heart failure? Colchicine or glucocorticoids"
"Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis typically occurs in patients with asthma or cystic fibrosis"
"What is the most common etiology of persistent nasal obstruction during early childhood? Adenoid hypertrophy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with recent acute otitis media that presents with fever, otalgia, and displacement of the ear? Mastoiditis"
"What is the next step for a child that presents with symptoms concerning for acute mastoiditis? Empiric IV antibiotic therapy + drainage of purulent material"
"A calcium-phosphorus product > 55 increases the risk of soft tissue calcification"
"Favorable prognostic factors in schizophrenia include acute::acute/gradual onset, identifiable precipitant, older age at onset, and predominantly positive psychotic symptoms"
"Retained placenta is defined as failure of the placenta to deliver within 30 minutes of delivery"
"What chemotherapeutic agent(s) are associated with heart failure with myocardial stunning without necrosis? Trastuzumab"
"Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, especially when severe, is associated with weight loss"
"Pseudoaneurysm is a local vascular complication of cardiac catheterization characterized by a(n) systolic bruit and painful, bulging, pulsatile mass"
"Arteriovenous fistula is a local vascular complication of cardiac catheterization characterized by a(n) continuous bruit and no mass"
"What is the next step in management for a postmenopausal woman that presents with a newly-discovered breast mass? Mammogram 6 months ago was negative. Mammogram"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with a morbilliform rash and eosinophilia 8 weeks after starting allopurinol? DRESS syndrome"
"DRESS syndrome is most commonly precipitated by allopurinol and antiepileptics (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly male that presents with abdominal distention and constipation five days after having surgery? His last bowel movement was 3 days ago. Imaging reveals colonic dilation without evidence of anatomic obstruction. Colonic pseudo-obstruction (Ogilvie syndrome)"
"What is the greatest risk factor for development of head and neck cancer? Tobacco use"
"Septic arthritis in children most commonly results from hematogenous spread"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with symptoms of hyperviscosity secondary to Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia? Urgent plasma exchange"
"Paraphimosis refers to retraction and entrapment of the prepuce in an uncircumcised male"
"What is the first-line treatment for genital warts during pregnancy? Topical trichloroacetic acid"
"The diagnosis of tinea corporis is confirmed with KOH preparation of skin scrapings demonstrating segmented hyphae"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with poorly controlled HIV that presents with mild odynophagia/dysphagia? Empiric fluconazole"
"Which serotonin receptor is antagonized by many atypical antipsychotics? 5-HT2A"
"Patients with borderline personality disorder often have a history of childhood trauma (physical, sexual, emotional abuse)"
"What antibiotic should be started for patients with a first recurrence of C. difficile colitis? Oral vancomycin or fidaxomicin"
"Which congenital infection is associated with seizure and temporal lobe hemorrhage without evidence of intracranial calcifications? Herpes simplex virus"
"What is the recommended treatment for an neonate with suspected HSV infection? Empiric acyclovir"
"What is the recommended treatment for a child with intermittent sleep terrors? Reassurance"
"What is the most reliable sign for vertebral osteomyelitis? Tenderness to percussion over the spinous process of the involved vertebrae"
"What is the preferred diagnostic test for Babesiosis? Peripheral blood smear (\Maltese cross\\")\""
"Intrapartum penicillin is indicated without routine screening in pregnant women with a history of GBS bacteruria or UTI during current pregnancy or those with a prior delivery complicated by neonatal GBS infection"
"Lacunar stroke of the posterolateral thalamus results in sudden-onset contralateral loss involving all sensory modalities (pure sensory stroke)"
"What is the next step in management for a patient found to have positive HCV antibodies? HCV RNA testing"
"Pretest probability of coronary artery disease is high in patients with typical angina > age 40 (men) or 60 (women)"
"Pretest probability of coronary artery disease is intermediate in men with atypical angina (all ages)"
"Pretest probability of coronary artery disease is intermediate in women with atypical angina > age 50 or typical angina age 30 - 50"
"The Parkland formula is an estimate of the total fluid requirement in the first 24 hours for burn victims and is calculated as total fluids = 4 mL * TBSA% x body weight (kg)"
"The most common causes of post-operative fever may be remembered with the \5 W's\\": POD 2-3: Wind (atelectasis) POD 3-5: Water (UTI) POD 5+: Walking (DVT/PE) POD 7: Wound infection POD 8-15: Wonder drugs (drug fever)\""
"What is the most effective nonpharmacological treatment for Tourette's syndrome? Habit reversal training (a form of CBT)"
"What is the recommended treatment for type I renal tubular acidosis? Oral bicarbonate replacement"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with an elevated protein gap (> 4 g/dL)"
"What is the recommended treatment for dissociative identity disorder? Trauma-focused psychotherapy"
"What is the treatment of choice for chronic insomnia? Cognitive behavioral therapy"
"What is the recommended treatment for seasonal affective disorder? Bright light therapy +/- an antidepressant"
"What is the next step in management for that began with SSRI therapy for anxiety that developed worsening anxiety and insomnia? Decrease the SSRI dose"
"Treatment for hoarding disorder? CBT (→ trial of SSRI if CBT fails, off-label use)"
"What is the most likely explanation for a patient who stopped taking his fluoxetine and lorazepam after 2 years and is now anxious and irritable and complains of insomnia, dysphoria, and anxiety? Benzodiazepine withdrawal"
"What is the first-line treatment for anti-psychotic treatment in patients with schizophrenia? Atypical antipsychotics (olanzapine, resperidone, quetiapine)"
"A history of childhood trauma (physical, sexual, emotional abuse) is common in patients with borderline personality disorder"
"What is the treatment of choice in a psychotic patient with previous adverse reactions to haloperidol and a past medical history of diabetes and seasonal allergies? Ziprasidone or Aripiprazole (second-generation with low metabolic risk profile)"
"A patient with a recent hospitalization 1 month ago for a depressive episode with suicidal ideation develops a maculopapular rash over the patient’s left scapula. During that hospitalization, his episode remitted and a new medication regimen was initiated. What medication is the most likely cause of this patient’s condition? Lamotrigine"
"Opsoclonus-myoclonus-ataxia is a paraneoplastic syndrome seen in neuroblastoma involving rapid and multi-directional eye movements, rhythmic jerks of the limbs, and ataxia"
"Do patients remember their dreams in REM sleep behavior disorder? Yes"
"What is the most likely disorder in an older patient who is constantly moving in his sleep as if acting out his dreams? The patient remembers his dreams and becomes fully alert upon wakening after a transient confusion. REM sleep behavior disorder"
"What anxiety disorder is characterized by anxiety restricted to social and performance situations, fear of scrutiny, and embarrassment? Social anxiety disorder (social phobia)"
"Which anxiety disorder is characterized by recurrent, unexpected panic attacks? Panic disorder"
"Which anxiety disorder is characterized by chronic multiple worries, anxiety, and muscular tension? Generalized anxiety disorder"
"Antidepressants need to be tapered over 6-8 weeks to avoid antidepressant discontinuation syndrome, which may produce flu-like symptoms, headache, nausea, insomnia, and myalgias"
"Somatic symptom disorder is characterized by excessive anxiety and preoccupation with >1 unexplained symptoms"
"Does illness anxiety disorder often have symptoms? No (key differentiating feature from somatic symptom disorder)"
"What is the treatment of choice in an acute mania patient with psychotic symptoms? Antipsychotics (1st and 2nd generation)"
"What is the treatment of choice in a patient with depression and auditory hallucinations, as well as a marked weight loss and refusal to eat? Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)"
"Advanced sleep phase disorder is a circadian rhythm sleep-wake disorder in which the sleep-wake cycle begins and ends earlier than normal Treatment includes phototherapy in the evening"
"What type of defense is seen with someone who is extremely nice to foreigners although the person is xenophobic? Reaction formation"
"Long-acting benzodiazepines such as diazepam and chlordiazepoxide can be used to treat alcohol withdrawal. What is the choice in a patient with hepatic disease (e.g. chronic alcoholic) or in inpatient setting? Lorazepam*"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who recently lost her husband and reports hearing him call her name? She also reports a loss of interest in activities, guilt over her husbands death, trouble sleeping, and loss of appetite. Major depressive disorder"
"Dialysis is indicated in the treatment of lithium toxicity in patients with levels above >4.0, altered mental status, or life-threatening arrhythmias"
"What is the next best step in management in a patient who has had difficulty sleeping, had weight loss, and trouble concentrating throughout the day? She reports frequent thoughts of suicide. Perform a suicide risk assessment"
"Which antipsychotic extrapyramidal effect is characterized by a subjective restlessness and inability to sit still and what are the treatments available? Akathisia → BB, benzo, or benztropine"
"What is the most likely explanation for hallucinations in a young boy with fever, runny nose, and a cough who appears to be talking to someone in the room and says he can see his old cat? The parents have tried OTC cough and cold medications for the past 36 hours. Labs are significant for fever of 101 F. Medication side effect due to antihistamines"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with suspected anorexia nervosa that presents with stable vital signs, BMI 17.5, and a normal electrolyte panel? Nutritional rehabilitation and psychotherapy (CBT)"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a patient who has delusions/hallucinations five days after being treated for a severe asthma exacerbation? He remains alert and cognitively intact. Glucocorticoid-induced psychosis"
"What is the treatment in a patient with recurrent major depressive episodes with the onset in the fall and remission in the spring? Antidepressants and bright-light therapy"
"Anorexia Nervosa is associated with osteopenia::musculoskeletal, leading to an increased risk of bone fractures"
"Naltrexone = prevent relapse in opioid use disorder but only in absence of acute withdrawal symptoms Methadone or Suboxone (Buprenorphine & Naloxone) = treat opioid withdrawal Naloxone = treat opioid overdose"
"What is the strongest predisposing risk factor for bipolar disorder? Genetic predisposition"
"There will be decreased::increased/decreased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in CSF analysis in patients with major depressive disorder"
"Benzodiazepine overdose leads to CNS depression, causing lethargy, somnolence, and hypo-reflexia"
"What is the treatment of delirium tremens? IV benzodiazepines (Lorazepam)"
"What are the CNS side effects of β-blockers (propranolol)? Drowsiness, fatigue/lethargy, depression::3"
"Schizoaffective disorder is characterized by features of schizophrenia and major mood disorder (depression or bipolar disorder)"
"Rapid Diagnosis A patient has persecutory delusions and hallucinations for the past 3 years. 6 months ago he started having sadness, guilt, insomnia, decreased concentration, and sleep issues. Schizoaffective disorder"
"What is the choice in pharmacotherapy for a patient with specific phobia who refuses CBT or if CBT is not available? Benzodiazepines (i.e. lorazepam)"
"What is the time frame required to diagnose somatic symptom and illness anxiety disorder? 6 months"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a mother who has trouble sleeping, concentrating, fatigue, guilt about being a bad mother, and a loss of interest in activities? The symptoms began 6 weeks after the birth of her 9-month old child. Major depressive disorder"
"Neonatal herpes simplex virus can cause hemorrhage and edema in the temporal lobe"
"Colicky pain w/o fever and leukocytosis = obstruction::cause of visceral pain"
"Inflammatory pain presents as constant and localized and fever/leukocytosis"
"Sudden onset abdominal pain and patient is motionless = perforation::cause of pain"
"Sudden onset pain with pain out of proportion (POOP) +/- bloody stool = ischemic::cause of pain"
"Generally, pathology of the RUQ is confirmed via ultrasound::imaging modality"
"Free air under the diaphagram on upright chest X-ray indicates perforation of the bowel::cause"
"What imaging modality is preferred for diagnosis of acute or chronic mesenteric ischemia? CT angiography"
"What test is used to establish the diagnosis of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis? Paracentesis"
"What imaging modalities are preferred for detecting kidney stones? Abdominal CT scan w/o contrast (preferred) Ultrasound::2"
"A child with a history of uncontrolled seizures should not receive which vaccine(s)? Pertussis"
"When should solid foods be initiated in infants? 6 months with continued breast/formula feeding"
"A young patient presents with progressive weakness in the lower limbs. She has a history of scoliosis and high plantar arches. Strength is 2/5 in the lower limbs and 5/5 in the upper limbs. Decreased vibratory and position sense is noted in the lower extremities. MRI shows cervical spinal cord atrophy. What is the best diagnostic test? Genetic testing (frataxin gene)"
"Gunshot wounds below the nipple (T4) = ex lap (surgery)"
"Penetrating trauma to abdomen and peritoneal signs / evisceration / unstable is managed with ex lap::next step Penetrating trauma to abdomen and superficial (non-peritoneal) signs is managed with digital inspection (see if peritoneum penetrated) - NO surgery::next step and CT scan"
"What is used to assess for intraperitoneal hemorrhage in an alert, hemodynamically stable patient with blunt abdominal trauma? Focused Assessment with Sonography for Trauma (FAST)"
"What structure is contained within the hepatoduodenal ligament? What does the Pringle maneuver do? Portal triad (proper hepatic artery, portal vein, common bile duct); clamp ligament to control bleeding"
"Signs of posterior urethral::anterior urethral/posterior urethral injury include blood at the urethral meatus and a high-riding prostate"
"Pelvic fracture, hemodynamically stable and bleed = external::external/internal fixation + no surgery"
"Hip rocking producing crepitus, pain, and mobility = pelvic fracture"
"Rectal injury in pelvic fracture. Next step? Proctoscope"
"What are the ABCs in trauma assessment? Airway, Breathing, Circulation"
"Maintain airway and no facial trauma is managed with endotracheal tube::treatment"
"Maintain airway and significant facial trauma is managed with cricothyrotomy::treatment"
"ABCs: Oxygenation::Oxygenation/Ventilation is influenced by FiO2 and PEEP Ventilation is influenced by TV * RR"
"How is endotracheal tube placement confirmed? End-tidal CO2"
"Shock is defined as systolic BP < 90 or urine output < 0.5 mL/kg/hr"
"Hemorrhagic shock is treated with fluids → blood"
"What blunt chest trauma complication presents with a triad of hypotension, distended neck veins, and distant heart sounds? Cardiac tamponade (\Beck's triad\\")\""
"What is the recommended treatment for a hemodynamically unstable patient with cardiac tamponade? Emergency pericardiocentesis"
"Treatment of cardiogenic shock? Administer inotropes"
"penetrating trauma, distended neck veins, reduced lung sounds, hyperresonance and trachea contralateral deviation is tension pneumothorax::condition"
"Treatment of tension pneumothorax is needle decompression → thoracostomy (chest tube)"
"Neurogenic shock = generalized vasodilation due to spinal trauma and low CO"
"Treatment of neurogenic shock? Fluid and pressors"
"How is septic shock treated? IV fluids (first-line), vasopressors (dopamine) and antibiotics"
"Secondary spontaneous pneumothorax may be due to mechanical ventilation with use of high pressures"
"\Tearing\\" chest pain that radiates to the back and unequal radial pulses is suggestive of aortic dissection::condition\""
"Will hemoglobin change in trauma patients who are bleeding and are hypotensive before giving fluids? No"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that needs emergency fluid resuscitation and peripheral IV access cannot be obtained? Attempt intraosseous access"
"Is there pulmonary edema in cardiac tamponade? No"
"Head trauma = CT::imaging"
"Basilar Skull Fracture::head injury; must check the cervical spine with CT scan"
"Top: Epidural hematoma Middle: Subdural hematoma Bottom: Subarachnoid hemorrhage"
"Which type of cranial hematoma involves a fixed dilated pupil and contralateral hemiparesis? Acute Epidural Hematoma"
"Subdural hematoma occurs due to tearing of bridging veins::vasculature"
"What brain injury typically occurs from traumatic acceleration/deceleration shearing forces? Diffuse axonal injury"
"Loss of consciousness following head injury and retrograde amnesia Concussion::injury, observe for neurologic signs and assess bleeding with CT scan::imaging"
"In addition to CT imaging, acute subdural hematoma should include management of intracranial pressure"
"Mild trauma in elderly and gradual deterioration in mental function = chronic subdural hematoma"
"What is the treatment for acute pericarditis? NSAIDs and Colchicine"
"How do you treat mitral regurgitation? Valve replacement"
"During assessment of neck trauma, if anyone has these signs, what should you do? Surgery"
"Trauma to the spinal cord is assessed via MRI::imaging and treated via high dose steroids"
"Brown-Sequard syndrome"
"What neurological pathology presents with pain/temperature loss and muscle weakness in the upper extremities? Syringomyelia"
"Imaging technique for evaluating neck trauma? CT angiography (evaluate vessels)"
"If there are no soft or hard signs in a penetrating neck injury, what do you do? Observe"
"Treatment of pneumothorax is thoracostomy (chest tube to drain air)"
"Chest tube and surgical exploration (thoracotomy)::treatment is required to treat hemothorax if chest tube produces > 1500 mL of blood on insertion or 200 mL/hr"
"How does the flail chest segment move with inspiration? Moves inward (paradoxical chest wall motion)"
"What trauma pathology occurs when > 3 continuous ribs are fractured in > 2 places? Flail chest"
"What are the most important early steps for managing flail chest? (2) Pain control Supplemental O2"
"What is used to manage respiratory failure secondary to flail chest? Mechanical positive pressure ventilation (PPV)"
"What blunt chest trauma complication is characterized by unilateral decreased breath sounds and patchy, irregular alveolar infiltrate on imaging < 24 hours after the injury? Pulmonary contusion"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a hemodynamically unstable patient that presents following a motor vehicle accident with an elevated PCWP that worsens after administration of IV fluids? Myocardial contusion"
"Widened mediastinum on X-ray after deceleration injury; diagnosis and imaging? Dissection of aorta; CT angio"
"What is the most essential part of management for an uncomplicated rib fracture (e.g. no hypotension, pneumothorax, etc.)? Pain control (nerve block)"
"What is the underlying cause of hemorrhagic shock in a patient with decreased breath sounds, tracheal deviation, and dullness to percussion? Hemothorax"
"A(n) sucking::type chest wound involves a flap that sucks air in upon inspiration but closes during expiration"
"Alkaline::Acidic/Alkaline burns are worse"
"Chemical burns of the skin is managed with irrigation::treatment"
"Respiratory burn patients should have their airway assessed for edema/soot with bronchoscope::instrument and intubation::treatment due to risk of airway closure"
"People who have electrical burns are at risk of arrhythmias, posterior shoulder dislocation, and demyelination"
"Electrical burns can cause myoglobinuria, so one should check a serum CK level"
"Circumferential, full-thickness burns can result in eschar formation that restricts venous/lymphatic drainage, leading to acute compartment syndrome"
"1st degree burn = epidermis intact"
"(+) Pain, (+) blister and partial thickness burn = 2nd degree burn"
"(-) Pain and white/charred edges and full thickness burn = 3rd degree burn"
"The Parkland formula is an estimate of the total fluid requirement in the first 24 hours for burn victims and is calculated as total fluids = "
"Silver sulfadiazine and mafenide is the treatment for burn wounds::condition"
"Ingested chemical is managed with EGD::staging and observation::treatment"
"Each arm (back and front) is 9% surface area Each leg (back and front) is 18% surface area"
"Fomepizole is used as an antidote for methanol or ethylene glycol poisoning"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a homeless patient that presents with confusion, epigastric pain, and blurred vision? Laboratory studies reveal anion gap metabolic acidosis. Methanol poisoning"
"Ethylene glycol damages the kidney::organ, showing calcium oxalate stones with Wood's lamp"
"Acetaminophen toxicity results from overproduction of the toxic metabolite NAPQI, which leads to hepatic necrosis; treated with N-acetylcysteine and activated charcoal"
"What is the likely ingested agent in a patient who overdosed and presents with fever, tinnitus, and tachypnea? Aspirin"
"Early aspirin intoxication = pure respiratory alkalosis Later aspirin intoxication (> 12 hours) = mixed respiratory alkalosis and metabolic acidosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for carbon monoxide poisoning? 100% O2 or hyperbaric O2"
"Antidotes for cyanide poisoning include hydroxycobalamin (preferred) or sodium thiosulfate; alternatively nitrites may be used to induce methemoglobinemia"
"What acid-base disturbance is associated with cyanide poisoning? Metabolic acidosis"
"What is the likely cause of acute renal failure in a patient with high anion, osmolal gap metabolic acidosis, and calcium oxalate crystals on urinalysis? Ethylene glycol poisoning"
"Nitroprusside is associated with cyanide poisoning, which may present as lactic acidosis, altered mental status, and seizures"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a farmer that presents to the hospital with agitation, vomiting, and watery eyes? Physical exam reveals 1 mm pupils bilaterally and increased bowel sounds. Organophosphate (acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) poisoning"
"Treatment: Rabies (wild animal, unprovoked) kill + biopsy, if (+) → administer IgG + vaccine"
"What is the antidote for Black Widow spider bites? IV calcium gluconate"
"Brown Recluse is a type of spider whose bite can cause skin ulceration with a(n) necrotic center and surrounding erythema"
"Human / dog bites are treated with Amoxicillin-Clavulanate (Augmentin)::antibiotic blend"
"A(n) Black Widow spider::insect bite can cause pancreatitis"
"Atrial septal defects are usually asymptomatic, but may present with a(n) fixed split S2 on cardiac ausculation, and rarely pulmonary HTN and Eisenmenger syndrome"
"Large ventricular septal defects may present with a harsh, blowing holosystolic murmur with thrill; and can lead to endocarditis, progressive aortic regurgitation, heart failure, pulmonary HTN, and Eisenmenger syndrome"
"Coarctation of the aorta presents with HTN in upper extremities and hypotension in lower extremities; a(n) midsystolic or continuous murmur heard best over the back (interscapular area); and notching of the ribs on CXR. Treat with surgical decompression"
"Surgical ligation of a patent ductus arteriosus is contraindicated when there is severe pulmonary HTN"
"Tetralogy of fallot is characterized by a(n) pulmonary artery stenosis, right ventricular hypertrophy, overriding aorta, and VSD"
"Tetralogy of fallot presents with cyanosis::most common symptom, Tet spells, and a(n) crescendo-decrescendo::nature of the murmur murmur at the left upper sternal border::anatomic location. CXR classically shows upturning of the cardiac apex (\boot-shaped heart\\")"
"Following treatment of septic shock with antibiotics and steroid, patient deteriorates rapidly - cause? Adrenal insufficiency"
"Linear skull fractures that are closed (no overlying wound) are left alone::treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with sudden onset flashes of light and floaters in the left eye? The patient felt like \a curtain came down\\" over her eye. Ophthalmoscopy reveals a grayish-appearing retina. Retinal detachment\""
"Treatment of strabismus includes patching or blurring of the normal::normal/affected eye"
"TIA will resolve within 24 hours"
"Headache, systemic symptoms (fever/leukocytosis), history of sinusitis and cranial nerve symptoms (e.g. diplopia) is suggestive of cavernous sinus thrombosis::syndrome"
"Treatment for facial nerve palsy may include corticosteroids if due to a traumatic etiology (edema)"
"Metronidazole can cause a(n) disulfiram-like reaction with alcohol and leave a metallic taste in the mouth"
"Ménière disease typically presents with a triad of tinnitus, episodic vertigo, and sensorineural hearing loss"
"The symptoms of Ménière disease are due to elevated endolymphatic pressure"
"A patient complaining of dizziness that manifests upon head movement states that the sensation lasts for < 1 min. The Dix-Hallpike maneuver yields rotary nystagmus during physical examination. What type of peripheral vertigo is the likely diagnosis?  Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV)"
"A persistent chalazion, as shown above, should be biopsied::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with a hard, painless bump on the eyelid? Chalazion"
"First step if symptomatic spinal cord compression? Dexamethasone (steroids)"
"Patients with spinal shock should get a(n) foley catheter to prevent acute urinary retention"
"What is the long-term treatment for hydrocephalus? Ventriculoperitoneal shunting"
"Treatment for single brain met? Resection Treatment for multiple brain mets? Whole brain radiation therapy"
"Symptomatic spinal epidural hematomas require urgent surgical decompression of the spinal canal and evacuation of the hematoma by laminectomy"
"Ipsilateral headache, neck pain, partial horner syndrome (ptosis/miosis) and absent flow in ICA is suggestive of carotid artery dissection"
"Gradual, severe radicular pain, asymmetrical weakness, saddle anesthesia and bowel/bladder dysfunction Cauda equina syndrome"
"The stapedial branches of the facial nerve branch before::before/after the facial nerve exits the skull"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with a burning sensation around the left eye and decreased vision for the past 5 days? Physical exam is remarkable for a vesicular rash over the forehead and left eye. Dendriform ulcers are seen on the cornea. Herpes zoster ophthalmicus"
"Epidural blood patch is indicated for post-lumbar puncture headache"
"Nausea/vomiting, headache and focal neuro deficits following otitis media is suggestive of brain abscess::diagnosis"
"Subclavian steal syndrome occurs when the subclavian artery is occluded, leading to retrograde flow from the vertebral artery"
"What is the best choice of treatment in a patient with generalized anxiety disorder with erectile dysfunction? Buspirone"
"Upper vs. Lower GI Bleeding: Rule out Upper GI bleed with EGD Rule out Lower GI bleed with Colonoscopy"
"In addition to lifestyle modifications, refractory constipation in a toddler may be managed initially with oral laxative therapy"
"CXR findings consistent with esophageal perforation include left-sided pleural effusion, subcutaneous emphysema, and widened mediastinum"
"Neonate with \double bubble\\" on CXR is duodenal atresia::condition\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged man with fatigue, pruritus, ulcerative colitis, and elevated alkaline phosphatase? Primary sclerosing cholangitis"
"What antibody is associated with primary sclerosing cholangitis? p-ANCA"
"Endoscopy shows multiple, refractory duodenal ulcers and thick gastric folds. What is the next lab test? Fasting serum gastrin levels (> 1000)"
"LLQ pain, change in bowel habits and blood in stool is suggestive of diverticulosis::diagnosis"
"Esophageal atresia with TEF typically presents with excessive secretions at the mouth (drooling, choking), coughing spells/vomiting, and vomiting with the first feeding"
"Diagnosis of C. difficile colitis is made by stool assay for toxins or PCR for genes"
"Pyloric stenosis often presents with a palpable \olive-like\\" mass in the epigastric region of the abdomen\""
"Pyloric stenosis typically presents with nonbilious, projectile vomiting (bilious or nonbilious)"
"What IBD or C. Difficile complication presents with colonic dilation with loss of haustration on X-ray and fever, tachycardia, leukocytosis, and/or anemia? Toxic megacolon"
"Bowel-sparing surgical treatment of Crohn's disease is indicated after conservative medical therapy has failed"
"Diagnostic test for inflammatory bowel disease? Colonoscopy"
"Primary biliary cholangitis is an autoimmune disease characterized by destruction of intra-hepatic bile ducts"
"What antibody is characteristically elevated in primary biliary cholangitis? Anti-mitochondrial antibody"
"What pharmaceutical treatment is helpful for delaying the progression of primary biliary cholangitis? Ursodeoxycholic acid"
"What is the next step in management of a patient with diverticulitis complicated by an abscess > 3 cm? CT-guided percutaneous drainage"
"Open surgical repair for complicated::complicated/uncomplicated hernias Laparascopic surgical repair for uncomplicated::complicated/uncomplicated hernias"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a male patient with HIV that presents with a 3-cm anal ulcer and firm, non-tender inguinal lymphadenopathy? Anal cancer"
"What is the surgical management for anal SCC? Nigro chemoradiation protocol and excision of residual tumor::specific"
"Hematocrit::Lab value assesses the severity of pancreatitis and can increase with third spacing"
"Meckel diverticulum is diagnosed using a(n) technetium-99m pertechnetate study for uptake by ectopic gastric mucosa"
"Esophageal ring at GE junction is also known as Schatzki's ring::condition"
"What is the treatment for Schatzki's ring? Mechanical dilatation"
"Barrett's esophagus with dysplasia is managed with endoscopic mucosal resection::treatment"
"What is the most common type of inguinal hernia? Indirect"
"Enterocutaneous fistula may occur as a complication of abdominal surgery, presenting with viscous, dark green \substance\\" draining some time after surgery\""
"What is the likely diagnosis for a solid liver mass in a young woman on oral contraceptives? Hepatic adenoma"
"Are hepatic adenomas typically benign or malignant? Benign"
"Is needle biopsy recommended for a patient with a hepatic adenoma? No (due to risk of bleeding)"
"Treatment of a small perforation of esophagus (Boerhaave) is conservative therapy (antibiotics, NPO))"
"What pharmaceutical therapy is recommended for prophylaxis of non-bleeding esophageal varices? Non-selective β-blockers (e.g. propranolol, nadolol)"
"What is the recommended treatment for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis? Broad-spectrum antibiotics (e.g. cefotaxime)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient status-post Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery who presents with abdominal bloating, diarrhea, and macrocytic anemia? Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth"
"Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth may be diagnosed via carbohydrate (lactulose) breath testing or jejunal aspirate/culture"
"GI bleeding and hemodynamic instability =  angiography::next best step to localize and embolize"
"What test/imaging study is used to diagnose esophageal cancer? Endoscopy with biopsy"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease is characterized by transmural inflammation and non-caseating granulomas on biopsy? Crohn disease"
"What is the treatment for gallstone ileus? Surgical removal of stone and cholecystectomy"
"Gallstone ileus occurs secondary to cholecystitis with fistula formation between the gallbladder and small bowel"
"What imaging test can confirm the diagnosis of ischemic colitis after a CT scan has been obtained? Colonoscopy"
"Intraabdominal bleeding - imaging? Stable patient = CT scan Unstable patient = FAST"
"What imaging modality is used to confirm a diagnosis of duodenal hematoma? Abdominal CT"
"What is the colonoscopy screening recommendation for patients with Lynch syndrome (HNPCC)? Begin at age 20-25; repeat every 1-2 years"
"First line feeding is oral::route feeding"
"Abdominal compartment syndrome is managed with a(n) temporary cover of abdominal contents"
"Prolonged post-operative ileus is characterized by hypo::hypo/hyper-active bowel sounds"
"Uniform distribution of gas = paralytic ileus::bowel obstruction or ileus"
"Post-abdominal surgery, absent bowel sounds, no passage of gas and distended abdomen and no pain. What is most likely occurring? Paralytic ileus"
"Malrotation with volvulus is managed with detorsion/decompression::surgical treatment"
"Mild ulcerative colitis, <4 stools/day (occasionally bloody): 5-ASA derivatives (mesalamine)::treatment Moderate UC, >4 stools/day: Mesalamine and Steroid::treatment"
"FAP and marked increase in polyps since the last screening or detection of an adenoma with high-grade dysplasia is managed with proctocolectomy::next step"
"Initial management of mild necrotizing enterocolitis includes supportive care and initiation of broad-spectrum IV antibiotics due to risk of septic shock"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman that presents with intense generalized pruritus, especially at night, elevated liver enzymes, and serum bile acids? Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy"
"What is the next step in management for a newborn with bilious emesis and gasless abdomen on X-ray? Upper GI series (e.g. barium swallow)"
"Midgut volvulus is a surgical emergency that classically presents in a neonate with congenital malrotation, manifesting as bilious vomiting and abdominal distention"
"What is the next step for blunt abdominal trauma in a hemodynamically unstable patient with an inconclusive FAST examination? Diagnostic peritoneal lavage (DPL)"
"Necrotizing enterocolitis and peritoneal signs is managed with surgery::treatment"
"Severe pain, peritoneal signs, NSAID use and free air under diaphragm is most likely GI perforation::condition"
"Diagnosis of a retroperitoneal hematoma is confirmed with non-contrast CT scan of abdomen/pelvis::specific or abdominal ultrasound"
"What is the initial step in the management of small-bowel obstruction that is complicated by fever, hypotension, and tachycardia? Urgent surgical exploration"
"Pancreatic fistula is a complication of pancreatic surgery that presents with normal anion gap metabolic acidosis::acid-base imbalance and high amylase in the drain fluid"
"Porcelain gallbladder is associated with an increased risk for gallbladder adenocarcinoma and usually requires cholecystectomy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with episodes of dysphagia, regurgitation, and chest pain with radiation to the back that is precipitated by emotional stress? Diffuse esophageal spasm"
"\Corkscrew esophagus\\" is suggestive of diffuse esophageal spasm (DES)::diagnosis\""
"Angiodysplasia is more common in patients with chronic kidney disease and von Willebrand disease"
"What procedure should be done prior to endoscopic treatment in patients with upper GI bleed who have a depressed level of consciousness and continued hematemesis? Endotracheal intubation"
"Imaging for chronic pancreatitis or pancreatic cancer = abdominal CT scan or ultrasound"
"Chronic pancreatitis::condition is characterized by steatorrhea, epigastric pain, alcohol abuse, fat-soluble vitamin deficiency and diabetes"
"Primary biliary cholangitis can prevent biliary elimination of cholesterol, leading to xanthomas"
"CA 19-9 and CEA are associated with Pancreatic adenocarcinoma"
"What hip movement worsens the pain associated with a psoas abscess? Hip extension::flexion or extension"
"Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is associated with increased risk of breast, GI, and gynecologic cancers"
"What is the underlying cause of fat malabsorption in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome? pancreatic enzyme inactivation"
"Test of choice for oropharyngeal dysphagia = videofluoroscopic modified barium swallow"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a cirrhotic patient with decreasing GFR, normal urinalysis, lack of improvement with IV fluids, and no other renal dysfunction? Hepatorenal syndrome"
"What is the work-up for phenylketonuria? Phenylalanine levels on newborn screening or quantitative amino acid analysis (showing increased phenylalanine levels)"
"Hepatorenal syndrome occurs due to splanchnic arterial dilation, which results in decreased vascular resistance and activation of the RAAS"
"Most common complication of peptic ulcer disease = bleeding::complication"
"Gardner syndrome is a combination of familial adenomatous polyposis with osteomas and fibromatosis. Funduscopy also shows congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (below)"
"The inhaled anesthetic halothane is most commonly associated with hepatotoxicity as an adverse effect"
"Acute pancreatitis can cause third spacing through increased capillary permeability"
"Bottle feeding = ↑ risk of pyloric stenosis"
"What IBD complication presents with colonic dilation on X-ray and fever, tachycardia, leukocytosis, and/or anemia? Toxic megacolon"
"What imaging modality is used to aid in the diagnosis of toxic megacolon? Abdominal X-ray"
"Toxic megacolon is a medical emergency that requires nasogastric decompression, antibiotics, IV fluids +/- IV steroids::if IBD associated"
"Acute pancreatitis typical imaging = ultrasound Acute pancreatitis imaging (if unclear labs) = CT"
"What cancer is associated with hereditary hemochromatosis? Hepatocellular carcinoma"
"What is the underlying cause of impotence in a middle-aged male with hepatomegaly and arthropathy? Hypogonadism (due to hereditary hemochromatosis)"
"EF < 35% and MI within 6 months are absolute contraindications to non-cardiac surgery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with Marfan syndrome that presents with sudden-onset tearing chest pain? Aortic dissection"
"What valvular defect is a possible complication of aortic dissection? Aortic regurgitation"
"What is the most common cause of death in Marfan syndrome patients? Aortic dissection (presents with sudden-onset tearing chest pain)"
"What is the treatment for post-operative acute mediastinitis? Drainage, debridement, and antibiotics"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with syncope, dyspnea, and a slow-rising/delayed pulse? Aortic stenosis"
"The strongest predictors of abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture are large aneurysm diameter, rapid rate of expansion, and current cigarette smoking::behavioral"
"What is the recommended screening protocol for abdominal aortic aneurysm? One-time abdominal ultrasound for men aged 65-75 with a history of smoking or past history"
"What is the preferred diagnostic study for hemodynamically stable patients with normal renal function and suspected aortic dissection? CT angiography"
"What is the preferred diagnostic study for patients with renal insufficiency or hemodynamic instability with suspected aortic dissection? Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE)"
"What is the preferred next step for diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease in symptomatic patients? ABI with Doppler < 0.9"
"An ABI of ≤ 0.90 is considered diagnostic of occlusive peripheral arterial disease (PAD) in symptomatic patients"
"What is the recommended pharmaceutical therapy to reduce overall cardiovascular mortality in patients with peripheral arterial disease? Antiplatelet agent (e.g. aspirin) and statin::2"
"Peripheral arterial disease::Which disease is characterized by exertional leg pain (claudication) and dermal atrophy (thin/shiny skin, loss of hair)"
"Risk factor for AAA = smoking::smoking/HTN Risk factor for aortic dissection = HTN"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that experiences multiple episodes of transient, monocular vision loss described as a \curtain falling over the eye\\"? Amaurosis fugax\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with sudden loss of vision in the left eye for the past hour? Examination of the eye reveals subtle retinal whitening. Cardiac examination is significant for a left carotid bruit. Central retinal artery occlusion"
"Transient ischemic stroke (TIAs) only last a short time because the body's own fibrinolytic system dissolves the clot"
"What is the most common cause of lower extremity edema? Venous insufficiency (valvular incompetence)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with a heavy smoking history that presents with ulcers/gangrene of the distal fingers and toes? Buerger disease (thromboangiitis obliterans)"
"Subclavian steal syndrome typically arises due to severe stenosis of the proximal subclavian artery, causing reversal of blood flow in the ipsilateral vertebral artery"
"Pseudoaneurysm is a local vascular complication of cardiac catheterization characterized by a(n) systolic bruit and painful, pulsatile mass"
"What imaging modality is used to confirm the diagnosis of coarctation of the aorta? Echocardiogram"
"Treatment for aortic regurgitation is mechanical valve replacement before LV dysfunction occurs"
"Pericardiac knock (~S3) is heard in constrictive pericarditis::condition"
"A dip-and-plateau sign in the y-descent is found in: Constrictive pericarditis::condition Restrictive cardiomyopathy::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with hypotension, distended neck veins, and muffled heart sounds? Cardiac tamponade"
"What phenomenon is illustrated in the image below? Pulsus paradoxus"
"What imaging study is used for the definitive diagnosis of cardiac tamponade? Echocardiography"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with moderate-high probability of DVT (modified Wells > 2)? Compression ultrasonography"
"Mitral stenosis = ↑ pulmonary vascular resistance"
"Mitral stenosis = decreased::↑/↓ LVEDP"
"Cardiac injury - imaging? Stable patient = CT scan Unstable patient = FAST"
"High-output heart failure = ↑ LAP and ↑ CO and ↓ TPR"
"What are the two most common mechanisms that cause abrupt arterial occlusion in the setting of acute mesenteric ischemia? Cardiac embolic events (in setting of AFib, valvular dz) Acute thrombosis (d/t PAD or low CO states)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with pitting edema and leg pain that is worse in the evening accompanied by varicose veins and skin ulceration? Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI)"
"What is the likely causative microorganism in a patient with infective endocarditis after having a tooth extraction one month ago? Viridans group streptococci"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with prosthetic mitral valve that presents with shortness of breath and bibasilar crackles? Prosthetic valve thrombosis (~ mitral stenosis)"
"Ependymoma is a pediatric brain tumor may present as obstructive hydrocephalus and will appear as a mass with scattered calcifications most commonly within the 4th ventricle"
"The preferred treatment of strabismus is with occlusion therapy, which is accomplished by patching the healthy::healthy or unhealthy eye or penalizing (blurring) with cyclopentolate"
"What is the greatest risk in a patient with intermittent claudication secondary to peripheral arterial disease? Myocardial infarction"
"What is the initial management of choice (besides pain control) for patients with type B aortic dissection? IV β-blockers (e.g. labetalol, esmolol, propranolol)"
"Aortic stenosis = ↑ LV oxygen demand"
"What is the initial treatment of choice for a patient with ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia? Immediate defibrillation (unsynchronized)"
"What is the initial treatment of choice for a patient with persistent tachyarrhythmia with associated hemodynamic instability? Immediate synchronized cardioversion"
"Small::Small/Large VSD = Louder sound"
"Angina, syncope and CHF is suggestive of aortic stenosis::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on post-MI day 3 that presents with sudden-onset pulmonary edema, hypotension, and a systolic murmur (cardiac apex)? Papillary muscle rupture"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a male smoker with chest discomfort and the CXR findings below? Thoracic aortic aneurysm"
"What is the preferred diagnostic test for fibromuscular dysplasia? Non-invasive imaging (e.g. CT angiography, duplex ultrasound)"
"Bicuspid valve predisposes to aortic stenosis (older patients) and aortic regurgitation (young adults)"
"AAA and > 0.5 cm growth in 6 months or > 5.5 cm or symptomatic is managed with endovascular aneurysm repair::next step"
"Cilostazol should be given after::before/after smoking/exercise therapy and before revascularization procedures for peripheral artery disease"
"Does a graded exercise therapy reduce mortality in patients with peripheral artery disease? No"
"Cardiovascular risk factors and painless, pulsatile mass at the midinguinal point and continuous murmur on auscultation with palpable thrill = femoral aneurysm"
"What is the likely etiology of erectile dysfunction in a middle-age man that complains of difficulty attaining/maintaining an erection during sexual activity for 6 months? He continues to have normal early-morning penile erections. Psychogenic"
"(+) nocturnal erection = psychogenic cause of erectile dysfunction"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with a 4 mm kidney stone (first episode)? Hydration (> 2 L fluid intake daily)"
"Prehn's sign (relief of pain when lifting testes) is suggestive of epididymitis::diagnosis"
"Classic triad: hematuria and flank pain and palpable mass = renal cell carcinoma::condition?"
"What imaging modality is preferred for diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma? CT scan of the abdomen"
"Pt is suspected to have testicular cancer. Why is FNA biopsy of the testicle a very bad idea? Can cause seeding and induce spreading of the disease"
"What is the next step in management for an elderly man with a significant smoking history that presents with urinary frequency and episodic gross hematuria for the past two months? Physical exam, including rectal exam, is unremarkable. Cystoscopy"
" Aniline dyes are used as coloring agents in textiles and increase the risk for transitional cell (urothelial) carcinoma of the bladder"
"Testicular tumors = most common among young males (15-35)::population"
"What testicular mass is easily transilluminated? Hydrocele"
"Which side are varicoceles more common on? Left"
"↑↑ hCG in a choriocarcinoma causes gynecomastia (males) or hyperthyroidism due to α-subunit homology between hCG and TSH, FSH, and LH"
"Congenital hydrocele occurs due to incomplete obliteration of the processus vaginalis in infants"
"Which type of testicular tumor is associated with testosterone production? Leydig cell tumors"
"Seminoma::Seminomas/Non-seminoma testicular germ cell tumor: very responsive to radiotherapy metastasize late excellent prognosis"
"Risk factors for sporadic renal cell carcinoma include: male gender smoking::risk factor obesity::risk factor"
"Squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder typically presents with painless hematuria"
"What type of kidney stone is characterized by needle-shaped crystals on urinalysis and radiolucency? Uric acid stones"
"In addition to IV hydration and a low-purine diet, uric acid kidney stones may be treated with potassium citrate"
"Where does renal cell carcinoma typically metastasize to (2)? Lung, Bone"
"What is the preferred imaging modality for diagnosis of nephrolithiasis during pregnancy? Pelvic/Renal ultrasound"
"Non-contrast CT scan::imaging for nephrolithiasis if non-pregnant"
"What is the treatment for RCC? Radical nephrectomy"
"Invasive bladder cancer is managed with TURBT (resection)::treatment"
"What part of the bladder is most prone to rupture? Bladder dome"
"Right-sided varicocele suggests renal cell carcinoma or thrombus"
"Testicular torsion is treated with orchiopexy (surgery) on both::affected/both testes"
"Schistosoma haematobium infection is associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder in Middle eastern::ethnicity males"
"Is treatment necessary for an infant with hydrocele? No"
"Urinary tract obstruction can increase the risk of urosepsis, characerized by \toxic\\" signs (fever"
"What is the typical cause of zero urinary output after surgery? Usually mechanical problem - look for plugged or kinked catheter"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a euvolemic patient with high serum osmolality and low urine osmolality? Diabetes insipidus (central or nephrogenic)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with low urine osmolality that improves by > 50% following administration of desmopressin? Central diabetes insipidus"
"What is the preferred first-line treatment for central diabetes insipidus? Desmopressin (intranasal preferred over oral)"
"Initial hematuria which clears by end of stream = urethra::location of hematuria"
"What is the initial treatment for prerenal acute kidney injury? IV normal saline"
"Percutaneous nephrostomy is indicated for complete upper urinary tract obstruction and infection"
"Imaging for renal trauma = CT w/contrast"
"Evaluation of kidney injury in blunt genitourinary trauma should include urinalysis and contrast-enhanced CT of abdomen/pelvis::imaging in hemodynamically stable patients with evidence of microscopic hematuria and other signs of abdominal trauma (e.g. tenderness)"
"Trauma, pelvic fracture and insertion of a Foley catheter shows gross hematuria. Diagnosis? Bladder injury Imaging? Retrograde cystography"
"What are the current recommendations regarding PSA screening in asymptomatic patients? Conroversial; should be determined on a case-by-case basis by the physician and patient"
"Imaging for urethral injury = retrograde urethogram"
"What is the most appropriate pain management for a patient with advanced prostate cancer with bony metastasis, status-post orchiectomy? Radiation therapy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman with significant hypertension, amaurosis fugax, and a carotid bruit? Fibromuscular dysplasia"
"Gout = uric acid stones::kidney stones"
"In patients with traumatic spinal cord injury, urinary catheter placement can assess for urinary retention and prevent acute bladder distention/damage"
"What childhood malignancy typically manifests as an asymptomatic, smooth, non-tender abdominal mass that does not cross the midline?  Wilms tumor (nephroblastoma)"
"Treatment options for K+ removal from the body in patients with hyperkalemia include diuretics::pharmacology, cation exchange resins, and hemodialysis (definitive)"
"Granular \muddy brown\\" casts in urine is characteristic of acute tubular necrosis::condition\""
"Imaging modality of choice to examine the entire urinary tract: CT urography"
"What is the next step in management for a 12-month-old girl with a confirmed E. coli UTI that is resolving after initiation of antibiotics? Renal and bladder ultrasound"
"What is the likely underlying cause of resistant hypertension in a patient with diffuse atherosclerosis and >30% creatinine elevation after starting ACE inhibitors? Renovascular disease (e.g. renal artery stenosis due to atherosclerosis)"
"What is the most important intervention for preventing contrast-induced nephropathy? Adequate IV hydration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who develops a spike in creatinine a day after having a CT with IV contrast? Contrast-induced nephropathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with well-controlled diabetes that develops diarrhea, weight loss, anemia, and erythematous plaques with central clearing? Glucagonoma"
"Outer adrenal cortex = zona glomerulosa::layer Middle adrenal cortex = zona fasciculata::layer Inner adrenal cortex = zona reticularis::layer"
"No cortisol suppression with high dose dexamethasone (8 mg) is characteristic of ectopic ACTH production (small cell)::condition Yes cortisol suppression with high dose dexamethasone (8 mg) is characteristic of Cushing Disease::condition"
"What is the best screening test for primary hyperaldosteronism? Early-morning plasma aldosterone concentration (PAC) to plasma renin activity (PRA) ratio"
"Primary hyperaldosteronism is characterized by low plasma renin activity and high plasma aldosterone concentration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with hypercalcemia, elevated PTH, and low urine Ca2+? Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older patient with significant smoking history that presents with hypercalcemia and low PTH? Humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy"
"What is the likely underlying cause of hypertension in a young patient with depression, kidney stones, and hypercalcemia? Primary hyperparathyroidism"
"Perioral tingling, Trousseau sign and Chvostek sign are all caused by hypocalcemia::condition"
"How do the following laboratory values change in secondary hyperparathyroidism (e.g. CKD)? PTH: Increased Ca2+: Decreased Phosphorus: Increased"
"Tertiary hyperparathyroidism is due to chronic renal failure where the parathyroid becomes autonomous and secretes PTH all day, causing chronic hyperparathyroidism"
"Prior to thyroidectomy, patients with suspected MEN2A or MEN2B should be screened for pheochromocytoma"
"Work-Up: 1) ↑ 24-hour urine catecholamines and metanephrines is suggestive of pheochromocytoma::condition followed by: 2) Adrenal CT/MRI to localize tumor 3) I-123 MIBG scan that is taken up by tumor"
"Prior to removal of a pheochromocytoma, irreversible α-antagonists, such as phenoxybenzamine are administered, followed by β-blockers"
"A thyroid nodule is diagnosed as malignant with ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration, which is reliable for all cancers except follicular"
"Psammoma bodies associated with? Papillary carcinoma of thyroid Serous papillary cystadenocarcinoma of ovary Meningioma Malignant Mesothelioma"
"Parafollicular C cells (thyroid)::cell type = calcitonin secretion"
"What is the treatment for primary hyperaldosteronism due to a unilateral adrenoma? Surgical resection (adrenalectomy)"
"Treatment of acute adrenal insufficiency includes hydrocortisone or dexamethasone with aggressive fluid support"
"What nerve is \paired\\" with the superior thyroid artery? Superior laryngeal nerve\""
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with primary hyperaldosteronism that are poor surgical candidates? Aldosterone antagonists (e.g. spironolactone, eplerenone)"
"Most common cause of 1° hyperparathyroidism is parathyroid adenoma::condition"
"Hypocalcemia more than 1 week after parathyroidectomy is known as Hungry Bone syndrome"
"Platelets < 100,000::# is symptomatic"
"In the first step of fibrinolysis, plasminogen is converted to plasmin, which then binds to fibrin"
"Aspirin should be stopped 1 week::week/month/day before surgery"
"What is the treatment of choice (acutely) for uremic coagulopathy? Desmopressin (DDAVP)"
"Whatis the definitive treatment for Chronic Granulomatous Disease? Bone marrow transplant"
"What is the next step in evaluation of acute kidney injury in an elderly patient with BPH who presents with rising creatinine and urinary urgency without hematuria, weight loss, or elevated PSA? Renal ultrasound"
"What is the recommended management for a patient with uremic encephalopathy? Hemodialysis"
"Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) is a good approximation of left atrial pressure"
"Cardiogenic::Cardiogenic/Non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema = due to ↑ pulmonary hydrostatic pressure Non-cardiogenic pulmonary edema = due to ↑ pulmonary capillary permeability"
"High-risk thromboembolism (DVT/PE) is managed with heparin::next step Low-risk thromboembolism (DVT/PE) is managed with D-dimer::next step"
"Deep venous thrombosis is treated with anticoagulants to prevent thrombus propagation, thrombolytics to bust the clot, and a(n) IVC filter for treatment-refractory patients"
"What underlying cause of DVT must be ruled out in an older patient with their first episode of DVT and no history of immobilization, surgery, or provocative medications? Malignancy (hypercoagulable state)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with elevated BUN and creatinine (< 20:1 ratio) after an episode of hypovolemic shock? Acute tubular necrosis"
"How does cardiac index change in septic shock? Increased"
"Should those with hypovolemic shock be given vasopressors? No"
"Closed-head::location injury is never a source of hypovolemic shock"
"FAST exam is used for blunt::blunt/penetrating trauma"
"Hypotension, peritonitis, and evisceration is managed with ex lap::next step"
"Which neurovascular structure(s) is commonly injured in posterior knee dislocation? Popliteal artery"
"Why is heparin given after an extremity injury? ↓ thrombosis"
"A patient experiences bilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve injury. What do you do? Urgent tracheostomy"
"Compartment syndrome is characterized by increased pain with passive::active or passive stretching"
"What tissue pressure is diagnostic of compartment syndrome? > 30 mmHg"
"What is the most critical prognostic indicator for compartment syndrome? Time to fasciotomy"
"What is the first step in the management of a burn patient? Airway"
"Priapism is a sustained penile erection seen with spinal cord injury."
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child with a supracondylar humerus fracture that complains of increasing pain despite multiple analgesics? Compartment syndrome"
"Thyroid papillary carcinoma = lymphatic::lymphatic/hematogenous Thyroid follicular carcinoma = hematogenous::lymphatic/hematogenous"
"Hyperthyroidism and 1st trimester pregnancy = propylthiouracil (PTU)::drug Hyperthyroidism and 2nd/3rd trimester pregnancy = methimazole::drug"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an older patient with memory changes, weight gain, fatigue, and constipation? Hypothyroidism"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with constipation, cold intolerance, low libido, and hypoglycemia with eosinophilia on laboratory exam? Hypopituitarism"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a pituitary mass and the laboratory values below? Prolactin: 250 ng/mL (normal, < 15) LH: low TSH: normal Prolactinoma"
"Myxedema is non-pitting edema due to accumulation of glycosaminoglycans associated with hypothyroidism"
"How do the following laboratory values change in patients with hypopituitarism? Free T4: Decrease Serum cortisol: Decrease Aldosterone: No change"
"What is the most sensitive test for differentiating adrenal adenoma and bilateral adrenal hyperplasia in patients without a discrete unilateral adrenal mass on imaging? Adrenal venous sampling"
"What is the best initial diagnostic step for thyroglossal duct cyst? U/S"
"What is the primary treatment for papillary thyroid carcinoma? Surgical resection"
"Post-operative adjuvant therapies for papillary thyroid carcinoma may include radioiodine ablation and/or suppressive doses of thyroid hormone"
"What is the initial treatment of choice in asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients with SIADH? Fluid restriction ± salt tablets"
"What is the initial treatment for a macroprolactinoma (> 10mm) or symptomatic microprolactinoma? Dopamine agonists (e.g. cabergoline, bromocriptine)"
"What is the typical underlying etiology of acromegaly? Pituitary somatotroph adenoma (excessive secretion of GH)"
"What is the preferred initial test for evaluating patients with suspected acromegaly? IGF-1 level"
"Untreated acromegaly can cause concentric::concentric/eccentric myocardial hypertrophy, leading to diastolic heart failure"
"What is the treatment for primary hyperaldosteronism due to a bilateral adrenal hyperplasia? Aldosterone antagonist (e.g. spironolactone, eplerenone)"
"Excess cortisol (e.g. Cushing's) leads to a(n) increase in white cell count"
"Painless breast lump 2° to trauma is caused by fat necrosis::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a breastfeeding woman that presents with fever and localized breast erythema/tenderness with a palpable, fluctuant mass on physical exam? Breast abscess"
"Tamoxifen is a SERM that acts as an estrogen receptor antagonist in breast and agonist in endometrium"
"Raloxifene is a SERM that acts as an estrogen receptor antagonist in breast and antagonist in endometrium"
"What is the preferred adjuvant treatment for ER+ breast cancer in premenopausal women? Tamoxifen"
"What is the preferred adjuvant treatment for ER+ breast cancer in postmenopausal women? Aromatase inhibitors (e.g. anastrozole)"
"How does LCIS differ from DCIS on mammogram? no calcifications"
"Mammary Paget's disease is typically associated with an underlying adenocarcinoma (e.g. DCIS)"
"Otitis media with effusion can be distinguished from acute otitis media by the lack of acute inflammatory signs"
"What fever pattern is seen in patients with systemic-onset juvenile idiopathic arthritis? Daily fever spikes (quotidian fever)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with ear pain with a bulging, erythematous tympanic membrane on otoscopic exam? Acute otitis media"
"What type of hearing loss is suggested by the hearing test results below in a patient with left-sided hearing loss? Rinne: air > bone conduction in both ears Weber: lateralizes to the right ear Sensorineural hearing loss"
"Myringotomy with tympanostomy tube placement should be considered in children with > 3 episodes of acute otitis media in 6 months or > 4 episodes in 12 months"
"Minimizing conflict and stress in the home decreases the risk of relapse in patients with schizophrenia This can be achieved with family therapy"
"Folate is primarily found in green leafy veggies"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with chronic, episodic epigastric pain that suddenly worsens (X-ray findings below)? Perforated peptic ulcer"
"Cardiovascular risk factors and painless, pulsatile mass at the midinguinal point and anterior thigh pain = femoral aneurysm"
"In addition to central diabetes insipidus, desmopressin (DDAVP) may be used to treat hemophilia A, which is associated with hemarthrosis and prolonged bleeding after minor procedures"
"Treatment of psoas abscess is drainage and antibiotics"
"Diagnosis of knee issues (meniscus, ACL/PCL)? MRI::imaging"
"Treatment for femoral neck fracture is replacement w/prosthesis to prevent avascular necrosis of the femoral head"
"Blows to the forearm cause the struck bone to break and the other one to dislocate"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is associated with narrowed joint space, osteophytes, and subchondral sclerosis on radiographs? Osteoarthritis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese, adolescent boy that presents with progressive groin or knee pain over the past month? Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE)"
"Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) is characterized by external rotation of the thigh upon hip flexion"
"What is the recommended treatment for slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE)? Immediate surgical pinning of the femoral head"
"What study may be used to confirm the diagnosis of carpal tunnel syndrome if the diagnosis is uncertain? Nerve conduction studies"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with suspected mild carpal tunnel syndrome? There is no thenar or hypothenar atrophy on physical exam. Wrist splinting"
"The palmar cutaneous branch of the median nerve branches prior to the carpal tunnel, and travels above the transverse carpal ligament"
"What procedure is both diagnostic and therapeutic for septic arthritis? Arthrocentesis"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a 3-day history of fever and increasing unilateral knee erythema, pain, and swelling? Synovial fluid analysis"
"The radial nerve may be injured by compression of the axilla (e.g. due to crutches or sleeping with arm over chair, \Saturday night palsy\\")\""
"The radial nerve may be injured by a fracture of the midshaft of the humerus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young boy that presents with two months of progressive hip pain with limited internal rotation/abduction of the affected hip? Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease"
"What physical exam maneuvers are used to assess for developmental dysplasia of the hip? Barlow and Ortolani maneuvers"
"What is the preferred imaging modality for diagnosis of developmental dysplasia of the hip in infants < 4 months old? Hip ultrasound"
"What is the preferred imaging modality for diagnosis of developmental dysplasia of the hip in infants > 4 months old? Hip X-ray"
"Most common site of osteonecrosis = femur head::location"
"Which blood vessel is most commonly compromised in neck of femur fractures that causes osteonecrosis? Medial femoral circumflex"
"Ewing sarcoma is a bone tumor associated with a characteristic \onion-skin\\" appearance on X-ray\""
"Osteoid osteoma presents with bone pain, especially at night, that DOES resolve with aspirin/NSAIDs"
"What bone tumor is characterized by a bony mass with a radiolucent core on imaging? Osteoid osteoma"
"Which 3 structures in the knee are commonly injured in Unhappy Triad? ACL; MCL; Medial Meniscus"
"Posterior shoulder dislocations require multiple X-rays for diagnosis (e.g. axillary and lateral views)"
"A ruptured ectopic pregnancy typically occurs ~ 1 month::week/month after their last menstrual period"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young man with an anterior mediastinal mass and elevated β-hCG/AFP? Non-seminomatous germ cell tumor"
"This is an example of torus palatinus, which is a(n) congenital::neoplastic/congenital lesion"
"Paralytic ileus can occur after abdominal surgery, but also after trauma (e.g. retroperitoneal hemorrhage) and electrolyte imbalances (hypokalemia)"
"What is the most significant environmental risk factor for pancreatic cancer? Smoking"
"Traumatic rupture of the aorta (TRA)::Blunt deceleration trauma = widened mediastinum, left-sided hemothorax, and deviation of the mediastinum to the right."
"Blunt abdominal trauma causing fracture of the right 8th and 9th ribs leading to hypotension, free intraperitoneal fluid, RUQ pain/bruising and right shoulder pain is suggestive of laceration of the liver::diagnosis"
"Blunt abdominal trauma → left chest wall and left shoulder pain and tachycardia = injury to the spleen::organ"
"Ischemic colitis is a complication of cardiovascular::system surgery (e.g. AAA repair)"
"Which spinal cord disorder involves a fluid-filled, dilated central canal in the spinal cord? Syringomyelia"
"Which neurovascular structure(s) is commonly injured in supracondylar humeral fracture? Median nerve; Brachial artery"
"Thyroid surgery can cause hypoparathyroidism and hypocalcemia"
"What is the best diagnostic test for diverticulosis? Colonoscopy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with flushing, diarrhea, wheezing, and a heart murmur that increases with inspiration? Carcinoid syndrome"
"What is the most common cause of secondary hypertension in young women? Oral contraceptives"
"What is the difference between hypertensive urgency and hypertensive emergency? Hypertensive emergency is characterized by end-organ damage"
"Hypertension is diagnosed with two separate blood pressures taking over a span of four weeks"
"Adenomatous polyps are::are/arenot considered neoplastic"
"Hepatic encephalopathy can be precipitated by hypokalemia and alkalosis::acidosis/alkalosis"
"Laryngitis is a self-limiting infection that is usually viral and common cause of hoarseness"
"What is the most common cause of sore throat? Viral pathogens"
"When the likelihood of pulmonary embolism is low, do a(n) D-dimer test to rule it out."
"Uncomplicated::Uncomplicated/Complicated parapneumonic effusions are a type of pleural effusion that causes a sterile exudate in the pleural space"
"Pleural plaques = asbestosis::restrictive lung disease"
"Patients on β2 agonists (e.g. albuterol) can cause hypokalemia, which may present with muscle weakness, arrhythmias, and tremors"
"α1-antitrypsin deficiency results in panacinar emphysema that is most severe in the lower lobes of the lung."
"Cirrhosis and emphysema is most likely α1-antitrypsin deficiency::condition"
"Hypoventilation = ↔::↑↓↔ A-a gradient and respiratory acidosis"
"In the absence of SIADH, can infusion of normal saline cause hyponatremia? No"
"Lung abscesses may present with air-fluid levels on CXR, which suggests cavitation."
"Which pathogen responsible for acute diarrhea presents with myalgias, malaise, and nausea/vomiting? Viral gastroenteritis"
"Osteoporosis most commonly presents with vertebral body compression fractures and is diagnosed with a(n) DEXA scan"
"ADPKD::ADPKD/ARPKD: adults with hepatic cysts, berry aneurysms, diverticulitis/diverticulosis and MVP"
"1st generation H1 receptor antagonists may antagonize muscarinic receptors, leading to significant anti-cholinergic effects"
"Living::Living/Cadaver kidney transplant is preferred for treating chronic kidney disease"
"Nodular hyaline deposits in glomeruli Kimmelstiel-Wilson nodules (nodular glomerulosclerosis due to diabetes)"
"Thiazide diuretics::diuretic class = possible hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia"
"What type of kidney stone commonly affects patients with Crohn disease or other causes of fat malabsorption? Calcium oxalate stones"
"pH and PaCO2 can be used to calculate [HCO3-] using the Henderson-Hasselbach equation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman who has photosensitive skin, thrombocytopenia, and glomerulonephritis (RBC casts, low C3/C4)? SLE"
"What is the best diagnostic test for nephrolithiasis? Non-contrast helical CT"
"ACE inhibitors / ARBs = ↑::↑↓↔ serum K+"
"In addition to thiazides, calcium oxalate kidney stones may be treated with citrate supplementation and a low-sodium::electrolyte diet"
"Absolute contraindication(s) to surgery? Diabetic Coma and DKA"
"If a pt has CKD what do you do 24 hrs prior to surgery Dialysis"
"What post surgical complication would you worry about with the BUN > 100? Platelet dysfunction and bleeding"
"What would the platelet count and bleeding time show for uremia-induced platelet dysfunction? Platelet count = normal Bleeding time = prolonged"
"Cause of hyperclotting in the elderly? Cancer especially pancreatic"
"What acid-base disorder may be caused by loop diuretics? Metabolic alkalosis"
"Complications of acute kidney injury include hypervolemia::H2O, hyperkalemia::K+, metabolic acidosis::HCO3-, uremia::BUN, and infection"
"↓ Dietary calcium = ↑ risk of calcium oxalate stones"
"Poor nutrition, severe liver failure, and smoking::habit are contraindications to surgery"
"JVD is worst prognostic factor on Goldman Index"
"How long after a myocardial infarction should surgery be deferred? 6 months"
"Aortic stenosis::Which murmur? should be checked for pre-op risk for surgery"
"Aspirin, NSAIDs, and Vitamin E should be stopped 2 weeks before surgery to reduce risk of bleeding"
"Ventilator Settings: Assist-Control: ventilator delivers the same tidal volume during every inspiration, whether initiated by the ventilator or by patient"
"Ventilator Settings: Pressure-Support: Patient::Who/What sets the rate but the ventilator provides a boost of pressure with each breath"
"Ventilator Settings: CPAP: Patient::Who/What must breath on their own, but ventilator provides a(n) pressure of gas at all times."
"Ventilator Settings: PEEP: Ventilator provides a pressure of gas at the end of breathing cycle to keep alveoli open; important in ARDS::what condition?"
"Ventilator Settings: If low PaCO2 and ↑ pH → decrease::↑/↓ RR or TV"
"Is it more efficient to change tidal volume or respiratory rate to change O2 and CO2 levels? Tidal Volume"
"Vomiting = metabolic alkalosis::metabolic issue Diarrhea = metabolic acidosis::metabolic issue"
"Urinary Chloride in Metabolic Alkalosis: Vomiting + Nasogastric aspiration = metabolic alkalosis and ↓::↑/↓ urinary [Cl] = saline responsive::saline responsive/not responsive 1° hyperaldosteronism = metabolic alkalosis and ↑::↑/↓ urinary [Cl] = saline unresponsive::saline responsive/unresponsive"
"What acid-base disorder may be caused by loop and thiazide diuretics? Metabolic alkalosis"
"What is the likely cause of hypervolemic hyponatremia? Fluid overload"
"Euvolemic hyponatremia = SIADH::diagnosis?"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with SIADH who have severe hyponatremia (e.g. seizures, coma)? Hypertonic (3%) saline"
"Hypovolemic hyponatremia is managed with isotonic normal saline::treatment?"
"Euvolemic hypernatremia is managed with administer D5W drip::treatment"
"Muscle tingling or numbness and tetany (spasms) is caused by hypocalcemia::condition"
"Which electrolyte abnormality is most commonly associated with prolonged QT intervals? Hypocalcemia"
"Post-op ileus and paralysis are symptoms of hypokalemia::electrolyte abnormality"
"- If you have hyperkalemia associated with ECG changes, first step is to stabilize cardiac myocyte membrane by administering IV calcium gluconate - Then administer insulin + glucose in order to quickly shift K+ into cells"
"Which fluid replacement therapeutic is often the standard maintenance fluid? D5 1/2 normal saline with the 100/50/20 rule."
"TPN = ↑::↑↓↔ risk of gallstones"
"Treatment of circumferential burns? Escharotomy"
"What is done 1st in burn pts who have signs of thermal injury to upper airway and/or smoke inhalation injury to the lungs? Endotracheal intubation"
"Nephrotic syndrome causes a(n) hyper-coagulable state due to loss of antithrombin III"
"Antithrombin deficiency::condition leads to heparin resistance"
"Thrombosis and history of miscarriages is suggestive of antiphospholipid syndrome::condition"
"Lupus anticoagulant is an antiphospholipid antibody that results in a falsely elevated PTT"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult female with prolonged bleeding and ecchymoses and isolated thrombocytopenia on laboratory exam? Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP)"
"von Willebrand disease presents with normal platelet count + ↑ bleeding time and ↑/normal PTT"
"What peripheral blood smear finding is associated w/ DIC? Schistocytes"
"Which burn treatment doesn't penetrate an eschar and can cause neutropenia? Silver sulfadiazine"
"Mafenide penetrates an eschar but hurts"
"The main complication of silver nitrate is electrolyte abnormalities"
"Burn victims get topical::IV/topical/oral antibiotics"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent seizure who has a large amount of blood on urinalysis with few RBCs on microscopy? Myoglobinuria (secondary to rhabdomyolysis)"
"Check [K] levels if myoglobinuria is confirmed in a burn victim"
"What is the treatment of choice for compartment syndrome? Fasciotomy"
"Trauma: Unconscious patient GCS < 8 Stridor Expanding mass in lateral neck → intubate::next step"
"A(n) fiberoptic bronchoscope is an airway instrument used for subcutaneous emphysema of the neck as it allows for visualization of the airway"
"If intubation cannot be done due to laryngospasms, severe maxillofacial injuries or impacted foreign bodies, what procedure do you do? Cricothyroidotomy"
"What is the most common cause of decreased breath sounds on the left following successful intubation? Intubation of the right mainstem bronchus"
"Traumatic rupture of the aorta (TRA) is a severe vascular traumatic injury that should be suspected if there is a widened mediastinum, tracheal and esophageal deviation, and hemothorax."
"Pneumothorax"
"Should you go to O.R. for pulmonary contusion? No - Conservative"
"Air::Type embolism after lung trauma, ventilator use, removal of central line, or heart vessel surgery"
"What is the preferred route of fluid resuscitation in the trauma setting (e.g. hypovolemic shock)? Two large bore peripheral IVs"
"What is the initial management for a tension pneumothorax in a hemodynamically unstable patient? Needle decompression → tube thoracostomy"
"Loss of all reflexes and motor function, hypotension and bradycardia are symptoms of neurogenic shock"
"The three components of the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) are eye opening (4), verbal response (5), and motor response (6)"
""
"Elevating the head of the bed, hyperventilating, and mannitol::drug are used to treat increased ICP"
"In the zone method of neck evaluation of trauma, the middle (2)::upper/middle/basal zone can be safely explored with surgery in a stable patient"
"What is the first line imaging for Zone 1 and 3 neck trauma injury? Angiography"
"Zone 1 is below the cricoid Zone 3 is above the angle of the mandible"
"Penetrating Abdominal Trauma Assessment: 1) Unstable Patient? Ex-lap 2) Stable Patient? FAST::Method 3) If (2) is inconclusive, then do DPL"
"Gunshot wounds below the nipple (T4) and peritoneal signs = ex lap (surgery)"
"Blunt abdominal trauma and CT shows lower rib fracture and bleeding into the abdomen → spleen/liver::organ(s) laceration"
"Gross hematuria following blunt trauma suggests injury to kidney or bladder"
"History of trauma, left lower lung opacity, elevated hemidiaphgram and mediastinal deviation = diaphgramatic rupture"
"Handlebar injury → pancreatic::organ laceration/rupture"
"- Depressed skull fracture - Severely displaced/angulated fracture - Open fracture - Femoral neck / intertrochanteric fracture → O.R.::next step"
"Shoulder pain s/p seizure or electrical shock? Posterior::Posterior/Anterior shoulder dislocation"
"What pathology presents with an arm that is externally rotated and close to body (handshake position), and numbness over the deltoid? Anterior shoulder dislocation"
"A Colles fracture refers to a fracture of the distal radius that presents with a \dinner fork deformity\\"\""
"Metacarpals::What bones are fractured here after \punching\\" a wall\""
"How should non-displaced scaphoid fractures be managed? Thumb spica splint followed by serial X-rays to r/o osteonecrosis of the proximal segment/non-union of the fx"
"How should displaced scaphoid fractures be managed? Surgical intervention"
"Clavicle fracture: 1) Most often located middle::location and are treated conservatively::conservatively/surgically"
"The most common causes of post-operative fever (> 100.4) may be remembered with the \5 W's\\": POD 2-3: Wind (atelectasis) POD 3-5: Water (UTI) POD 5+: Walking (DVT/PE) POD 7: Wound infection POD 8-15: Wonder drugs (drug fever)\""
"Post-op fever day 3 (UTI) is managed with urinalysis and culture::next test and wide spectrum antibiotics/change foley::treatment"
"Pain at incision site and NO drainage: What is the cause and treatment? Cellulitis; culture and antibiotics"
"Pain at incision site and YES drainage: What is the cause and treatment? Simple wound infection; open wound and repack"
"Unexplained fever on POD 7+ may be due to a(n) abdominal abscess"
"What does this show and what is the next step in diagnosis? Pleural effusion; Thoracentesis"
"Types of Pleural Effusions: Exudate = ↑::↑↓↔ LDH/proteins/lipids Transudate = ↓::↑↓↔ LDH/proteins/lipids"
"What is shown here? Spontaneous pneumothorax"
"Treatment of small vs. large pneumothorax? Observation/oxygen vs. needle aspiration/chest tube"
"What is the diagnosis and how is it treated? Lung abscess; antibiotics"
"Solitary Lung Nodule: 1) Compare with old x-ray::first step 2) CT scan::What kind of imaging? if (1) is not available or growth"
"Solitary Lung Nodule: 1) If Chest CT shows benign features, then serial CT scans::next step 2) If Chest CT shows \suspicious\\" features"
"Most common lung cancer in females and non-smokers = adenocarcinoma::lung neoplasm"
"Which type of lung cancer is associated with hypercalcemia (ectopic PTHrP production)? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with significant smoking history who presents with shoulder pain, weight loss, and the imaging findings below? Pancoast (superior sulcus) lung tumor"
"Lambert-Eaton syndrome is often associated with small cell lung cancer::condition"
"Which lung cancer is associated with SIADH as a paraneoplastic syndrome? Small cell carcinoma"
"Large cell carcinoma of the lung is peripherally::peripherally/centrally located and has distant mets"
"Bilateral lung opacification without HF is suggestive of ARDS (edema)::condition and ventilation w/PEEP::treatment"
"HOCM::Aortic stenosis/HOCM = louder with valsalva"
"Which common heart murmur presents as a late systolic murmur w/ a midsystolic click? MVP"
"Holosystolic murmur radiates to axilla w/ left atrial enlargement: Mitral regurgitation::murmur"
"Opening snap followed by diastolic rumbling murmur is most likely Mitral stenosis::condition"
"Blowing diastolic murmur with widened pulse pressure and eponym parade? Aortic regurgitation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly man with dysphagia, regurgitation, halitosis, and aspiration? Zenker's diverticulum"
"Esophageal dialation with bird's beak appearance is seen in achalasia::condition"
"What is the final line/last resort/definitive treatment for achalasia? Heller myotomy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with episodes of dysphagia, regurgitation, and chest pain with radiation to the back that is precipitated by emotional stress? Diffuse esophageal spasm"
"What is the first-line treatment for diffuse esophageal spasm? Calcium channel blockers (e.g. diltiazem)"
"Retrosternal burning pain (heartburn) that worsens at night / lying down and coughing/wheezing/hoarseness = GERD"
"GERD first step in management is managed with PPI::PPI/24 hour pH monitoring GERD confirmatory diagnosis is managed with 24 hour ambulatory pH monitoring GERD alarm symptoms is managed with endoscopy (for biopsy) GERD and complications (stricture, Barrett's, refractory) is managed with surgery (fundoplication)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with extensive alcohol use who presents with severe retrosternal pain and subcutaneous emphysema after vomiting? Esophageal perforation (Boerhaave syndrome)"
"What is the recommended management for variceal hemorrhage if there is continued bleeding after endoscopic therapy? Balloon tamponade (until TIPS or shunt surgery)"
"Diagnosis of esophageal cancer = barium swallow Confirmation of esophageal cancer = EGD/biopsy"
"Epigastric pain associated with H. Pylori, NSAIDs, and glucocorticoids → peptic ulcer disease::diagnosis"
"Peptic ulcer disease → EGD w/ bx to differentiate H. Pylori vs. malignancy vs. benign"
"When is surgery done for peptic ulcer disease? Refractory symptoms > 12 weeks / malignancy"
"Krukenberg tumor::neoplasm = mucinous ovarian tumor 2° to mets from diffuse gastric adenocarcinoma::neoplasm"
"Virchow's node is seen in gastric carcinoma::condition"
"Sister Mary Joseph nodule is seen in GI / pelvic cancer (metastasis)::condition"
"What is the underlying etiology behind most MALT lymphomas of the stomach? H. pylori infection"
"Chronic pancreatitis can lead to gastric varices by causing splenic vein thrombosis"
"What is the treatment of gastric varices secondary to splenic vein thrombosis? Splenectomy"
"Dieulafoy lesion is a form of upper GI bleed that involves significant hematemesis from an aberrant submucosal artery in the stomach"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with melena and epigastric abdominal pain that is relieved with eating? Peptic ulcer disease (duodenal ulcer)"
"What diagnosis should be suspected in patients with multiple duodenal ulcers refractory to treatment or ulcers distal to the duodenum? Zollinger-Ellison syndrome"
"Patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome should be screened for what inherited disorder? MEN1"
"What imaging modality is most useful for diagnosing acute pancreatitis if laboratory testing (amylase/lipase) is unclear? Contrast-enhanced CT scan"
"Painless jaundice is seen in pancreatic head tumor::condition"
"Imaging for pancreatic cancer = abdominal CT scan or ultrasound"
"Diabetes, gallstones, steatorrhea and hypochlorhydria is suggestive of somatostatinoma::condition"
"Watery diarrhea, hypokalemia, achlorhydria and flushing is suggestive of VIPoma::condition"
"What hormone analog may be used to treat VIPoma and carcinoid syndrome? Octreotide (somatostatin analog)"
"Biliary cysts require surgical resection to relieve obstruction and prevent the development of cholangiocarcinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis for a patient with an acute, massive increase in AST/ALT in the setting of hypotension? Ischemic hepatic injury (shock liver)"
"Hepatitis B::virus or Hepatitis C::virus = ↑ risk of hepatocellular carcinoma"
"Woman on OCP with a palpable abdominal mass or spontaneous rupture leading to hemorrhagic shock: Hepatic adenoma::What is the diagnosis?"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an asymptomatic young adult female with a solitary liver mass with a hypodense central stellate scar on CT? Focal nodular hyperplasia"
"Fever, fatigue and RUQ pain with the following ultrasound of the liver is suggestive of pyogenic liver abscess::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile farmer with RUQ pain and a smooth, round hepatic cyst with septations and eggshell calcifications on ultrasound? Echinococcus granulosus infection"
"Echinococcus granulosis (hydatid cysts) = albendazole::antihelmintic drug"
"What three vaccines should patients receive prior to undergoing splenectomy? Anti-pneumococcal, Haemophilus, and Meningococcal vaccines"
"ITP::ITP/TTP = ↑ megakaryocytes"
"Hereditary spherocytosis is managed with splenectomy::treatment"
"In which abdominal area does splenic rupture commonly present? LUQ"
"Appendicitis presents with diffuse periumbilical pain that eventually localizes to McBurney's point"
"Diarrhea, cutaneous flushing and wheezing is suggestive of carcinoid tumor::condition"
"What vitamin/mineral deficiency is associated with carcinoid syndrome? Niacin (B3) deficiency"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly male with last bowel movement 3 days ago who presents with abdominal distention and constipation five days after having surgery? Imaging reveals colonic dilation without evidence of anatomic obstruction. Colonic pseudo-obstruction (Ogilvie syndrome)"
"What is the first line pharmacologic treatment for Ogilvie's syndrome? IV Neostigmine"
"SBO::What is the diagnosis?"
"A patent processus vaginalis predisposes to what two conditions? Hydrocele Indirect inguinal hernia"
"What is the site of protrusion in a direct inguinal hernia? Abdominal wall (through Hesselbach triangle)"
"Smoking results in: ↑::↑↓↔ risk for Crohn disease ↓::↑↓↔ risk for Ulcerative colitis"
"P-ANCA = Ulcerative colitis::IBD"
"What is the imaging modality of choice for diagnosis and follow-up of abdominal aortic aneurysms? Abdominal ultrasound"
"Chronic mesenteric ischemia presents with epigastric pain that occurs after::before/after/during eating"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of peripheral arterial disease that presents with pain, pallor, paresthesias, and pulselessness in one limb? Acute limb ischemia"
"What is the preferred method for diagnosis of peripheral arterial disease in symptomatic patients? Ankle-brachial index (ABI)"
"Thyroid nodules >1 cm with high risk sonographic features (ultrasound) should undergo fine-needle aspiration (FNA)::test"
"What type of thyroid nodule, hyperfunctioning (\hot\\") or hypofunctioning (\\"cold\\")"
"psammoma bodies (calcification) in thyroid is seen in papillary carcinoma::condition"
"Prophylatic thyroidectomies are done for MEN2 syndromes. Why is this done? Medullary carcinoma of thyroid → overproduction of calcitonin → hypocalcemia"
"Hypertension, metabolic alkalosis, hypokalemia: Primary hyperaldosteronism::diagnosis?"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a tall patient with kyphoscoliosis, neuromas on the lip/tongue, and medullary thyroid cancer? MEN 2B"
"Palpable breast mass > 30 y.o. woman → do mammogram +/- ultrasound and core needle biopsy to exclude cancer"
"DCIS is managed with lumpectomy and radiation and hormonal therapy::treatment"
"Low risk LCIS is managed with tamoxifen::treatment High risk LCIS is managed with tamoxifen and prophylactic bilateral mastectomy::treatment"
"LCIS/invasive lobular carcinoma::breast neoplasm = often bilateral with grouped lesions"
"Patient presents with red, itchy, swollen rash of nipple/areola Paget diease of the breast::Diagnosis?"
"Peau d'orange appearance of breast = inflammatory carcinoma::breast neoplasm"
"Actinic keratosis is caused by sun exposure and is a precursor lesion of squamous cell carcinoma"
"For diagnosis of soft tissue sarcoma, what is treatment? Excisional biopsy; wide margin excision and chemoradiation"
"Diagnoses? Cervical sinus cyst (along SCM, immobile) vs. Thyroglossal duct cyst (midline, moves)"
"Turner syndrome::congenital condition is associated with ↑ risk of cystic hygromas (lymphangiomas)"
"Oral cancers are most commonly squamous cell carcinoma::cancer?, seen in smokers and drinkers"
"Most common laryngeal cancer in kids with stridor: Laryngeal papilloma with stridor or cough"
"Warthins' tumor = always found in parotid gland::location and common among smokers::population"
"Mucoepidermoid carcinoma (parotid gland) can involve CN7::CN#?"
"A full term neonate presents with severe respiratory distress and absent breath sounds with a scaphoid abdomen. What is likely occurring? Congenital diaphragmatic hernia"
"Congenital diaphragmatic hernia is associated with lung hypoplasia"
"Baby is born w/ respiratory distress w/ excess drooling → tracheoesophageal fistula"
"Diagnosis of Tracheoesophageal fistula = feeding tube cannot pass through esophagus::method"
"Hirschsprung disease is characterized by explosive expulsion of feces (\squirt sign\\") leading to an empty rectum on digital rectal exam\""
"Gastrografin enema is diagnostic & theraputic for an infant with meconium ileus"
"Doppler ultrasound and urinalysis are optional workups in the diagnosis of testicular torsion"
"Why is lidocaine given with epi? Vasoconstriction → prevent systemic absorption"
"Posterior::Anterior / Posterior epistaxis is due to hemorrhage in the sphenopalatine artery and is life-threatening."
"Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease = osteonecrosis of femoral head in children::population"
"History of cancer, decreased breath sounds, dullness to percussion and friction rub = malignant pleural effusion"
"Post-trauma, chest pain, widened mediastinum and tracheal deviation is suggestive of aortic rupture/injury::diagnosis"
"What is the treatment for ischiorectal (perirectal) abscess? I&D"
"B"
"Testicular tumors present as a painless testicular mass in a(n) young::young/old man that cannot be transilluminated"
"Milky ascites is seen in a(n) chylous ascites (malignancy, cirrhosis)::condition"
"How do you treat symptomatic hypocalcemia? IV calcium gluconate"
"A pt presents c/o colicky flank pain that radiates to the groin. He states that this started 2 days ago and that yesterday he had hematuria. He also complains of nausea and vomiting; denies any fever or chills: Nephrolithiasis::Likely diagnosis?"
"FAP is managed with proctocolectomy::next step at time of diagnosis"
"G"
"D"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese woman with an erythematous rash involving the skin folds underneath her breasts? Intertrigo (most commonly due to Candida)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents 5 days post-CABG with large purple-black patches surrounded by erythema in the periumbilical area by sites of heparin injection? Type 2 heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)"
"JVD, crackles and SOB post-AV conduit formation is suggestive of high output cardiac failure::diagnosis"
"D"
"What is the first thing you do in a trauma setting? ABCS → airway, breathing, circulation, shock"
"Do you need to secure an airway if pt is conscious and speaking? No, there is already an airway What could cause someone to lose an airway quickly? Expanding hematoma or emphysema in neck::2"
"If you need to secure an airway in pt with potential cervical spine injury, which do you address first? Airway has to be secured before dealing with the cervical spine injury"
"What is the most common way to insert an \airway\\"? Orotracheal intubation What if patient has cervical spine injury? Orotracheal or nasotracheal + bronchoscope\""
"What device is mandatory to help secure an airway if there is subcutaneous emphysema in the neck? Fiberoptic bronchoscope"
"How do you treat a rib fracture? Local nerve block (intercostals) and epidural catheter"
"Management for penetrating injuries to the extremities? 1) When no major vessels in vicinity? Tetanus prophylaxis and wound cleaning 2) If near major vessel (but asymptomatic)? Doppler studies or CT angio::2 3) If obvious vascular injury? Surgical exploration/repair"
"Management of zero urinary output post-op? Usually mechanical problem - look for plugged or kinked catheter"
"Management of GI fistulas? Fluid, nutrition, and electrolyte replacement Compulsive protection of the abdominal wall (suction tubes, \ostomy\\" bags)\""
"For treatment of resectable breast cancer, how do you treat (a) small lesions located far from the nipple and (b) large tumors right under nipple and areola? (a) Lumpectomy → segmental resection and radiation (b) Mastectomy without radiation"
"In a patient with a subdural hematoma and no midline deviation, what is the focus of treatment? Prevent increases in ICP"
"1. Uneven gluteal folds 2. Easy posterior dislocation of hip that returns w/ a snap Developmental dysplasia of the hip::Diagnosis?"
"Significant degrees of angulation after fracture in a child will not::will/will not lead to permanent deformity"
"What is the best treatment for intertrochanteric fracture of the femur? ORIF via pinning"
"What is important in the post-op management of intertrochanteric fractures? Anticoagulation"
"Falling from a height and landing on feet: Obvious fracture(s): foot/leg Hidden fracture(s): lumbar/thoracic spine"
"Bleeding above the ligament of Treitz::structure = upper GI bleeding = dark::dark/bright red stools and hematemesis"
"Edematous pancratitis = ↑ hematocrit Hemorrhagic pancreatitis = ↓ hematocrit"
"Small, mobile, firm mass with sharp edges = fibroadenoma (benign)::breast neoplasm"
"C"
"Operability of lung cancer requires FEV1 > 800 mL after resection"
"A pt presents c/o of a skin lesion on his nose. Physical exam reveals a waxy, shiny, indurated, pearl-like lesion. You suspect basal cell carcinoma. What is the best initial diagnostic test? Excisional biopsy"
"Delayed facial nerve paralysis after traumatic facial injury = benign::benign/need to treat"
"What is the only (common) heart murmur that can be treated with balloon valvotomy/valvuloplasty? Mitral stenosis *and aortic stenosis"
"Aortic dissection = contrast-enhanced CT angiography::preferred imagingAortic dissection and renal failure = TEE::imaging"
"What head/neck tumor is suspected in adults who have unilateral sensory hearing loss? Acoustic neuroma"
"Treatment of cavernous sinus thrombosis is antibiotics and drainage of paranasal sinuses"
"The initial step in evaluation of Cushing syndrome is confirmation of hypercortisolism via one of the following tests: 1. 24-hour urine free cortisol (best initial test) 2. Late-night salivary cortisol 3. Overnight low-dose dexamethasone test"
"Does testicular torsion or acute epidiymitis present with fever/pyuria? Acute epididymitis"
"What is the management for a testicular tumor? Radical inguinal orchiectomy with post-surgery chemotherapy/radiation"
"First line treatment for organic impotence is PDE-5 inhibitors"
"Post-liver transplant increase in LFTs is managed with ultrasound/doppler::next step"
"The testicle cannot::can/cannot be pulled down to the scrotum in cryptorchidism"
"Penetrating::Penetrating/Blunt urologic injuries are surgically explored and repaired"
"Genu valgus (knock knees) is normal between ages 4 and 8"
"Older person with pathologic fracture while lifting a bag of groceries = metastatic tumor to bone"
"Dashboard injury → shortened, internally rotated, and adducted hip is suggestive of posterior dislocation of hip::diagnosis"
"Dupuytren contracture is a MSK disorder that involves hyperplasia of the palmar fascia leading to nodule formation and contracture of the 4th+5th digits, thereby causing the inability to extend fingers"
"Right-sided colorectal carcinoma = iron deficiency anemia and weight loss Left-sided colorectal carcinoma = obstructive symptoms (constipation and stool \caliber\\" change)\""
"Which demographic is more commonly affected by squamous cell carcinoma of the anus? HIV/Homosexuals with receptive sexual practices"
"What is tx of anal cancer? Nigro chemo protocol (5-fluorouracil and mitomycin) followed by resection"
"Pyogenic liver abscess is a liver abscess that is most often seen as a complication of biliary disease, especially acute ascending cholangitis"
"Pyogenic liver abscess is managed with percutaneous drainage::treatment"
"What does persistent headache or back pain in a woman who recently had breast cancer suggest? Metastasis"
"What produces a classic \square root sign\\" on ECG? Constrictive pericarditis\""
"A 23 year old man develops severe headache, seizures and projectile vomiting over a period of two weeks. He has low grade fever, and was recently treated for acute otitis media and mastoiditis. What is it most likely to be? Brain abscess"
"Prostate cancer is diagnosed with a(n) transrectal needle biopsy"
"Kidney stone > 10 mm is managed with shock wave lithotripsy::treatment"
"hyperextension injury → marked weakness and loss of temperature/pain in the upper extremities compared to the lower extremities Central cord syndrome::diagnosis"
"Which imaging procedure is used to diagnose bladder injury following pelvic trauma? Retrograde cystogram and post-void films::2"
"Burns > 20% of body surface = start at 1000 mL/hr of Lactated Ringer's solution"
"Femoral shaft fractures can lead to excessive blood loss"
"Ankle fractures with displacement of fragments is managed with ORIF::treatment"
"Facial fractures and closed head injuries should always prompt evaluation of the cervical spine"
"Acute onset of \electric shock\\" back pain radiating to legs = lumbar disc herniation\""
"Which fluid is used to restore tonicity in hypernatremia that manifests slowly (several days)? D5 1/2NS (5% Dextrose in 0.45% Normal Saline)"
"Heller myotomy is the treatment for achalasia::achalasia/GERD Nissen fundoplication is the treatment for GERD::achalasia/GERD"
"Young woman who is constipated and pain with defecation / blood is suggestive of anal fissure::diagnosis"
"Child passes a large bloody bowel movement is suggestive of Meckel diverticulum::diagnosis"
"Ultrasound shows thin walled, dilated gallbladder is suggestive of distal tumor::diagnosis"
"Acute pancreatitis and persistent fever/leukocytosis = pancreatic abscess::abscess/pseudocyst Acute pancreatitis + mass symptoms (feel a mass/early satiety) = pancreatic pseudocyst::abscess/pseudocyst"
"Subarachnoid hemorrhage: 1) Non-contrast CT::First line diagnostic imaging to detect blood 2) If #1 is (+) use angiography::imaging to detect source of bleed 3) If #1 is (-) use lumbar puncture::technique if clinical suspicion still high"
"Anosmia, ipsilateral atrophy of optic nerve and papilledema associated with meningioma is suggestive of Foster-Kennedy syndrome"
"Burns near the eyes are managed with triple antibiotic ointment::treatment"
"Acute abdomen caused by: Constant, generalized, severe pain & unmoving patient= perforation::perforation/obstruction Colicky pain, moving patient = obstruction::perforation/obstruction"
"Treatment for acute kidney rejection is steroid and antithymocyte::2"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with complete upper urinary tract obstruction due to a stone, who also presents with systemic symptoms? Percutaneous Nephrostomy"
"Treatment for vague symptoms that are worrisome for appendicitis? CT while preparing for surgery"
"The \knee-chest\\" position opens flow of CSF fluid to relieve headache = ependymoma\""
"Fracture of first rib, scapula, sternum and widened mediastinum is suggestive of traumatic rupture of aorta::diagnosis"
"What is the next best step if FNA of a thyroid nodule in a euthyroid patient comes back as malignant or indeterminate? Thyroid lobectomy"
"\Lead pipe\\" sign on imaging = ulcerative colitis::IBD\""
"Metabolic acidosis can occur due to loss of bicarbonate in the GI tract"
"What is the longest duration analgesic for wound management? Bupivacaine"
"What is the surgical treatment for pancreatic cancer at the body and tail of the pancreas? Distal pancreatectomy +/- splenectomy"
"Which cytokine typically promotes cancer cachexia? TNF-a"
"Post-carotid endartectomy → intraparenchymal hemorrhage = hypertension::cause"
"What is the next step in the evaluation of internal hemorrhoids with bright red bleeding in high risk individuals? Colonoscopy"
"Pneumothorax = distended::flat/distended neck veins Hemothorax = flat neck veins"
"Pain in knee, restricted extension, joint line tenderness, joint effusion and popping/clicking is suggestive of torn meniscus::diagnosis"
"Central retinal artery occlusion = narrowing::dilation/narrowing of retinal veins Central retinal vein occlusion = dilation of retinal veins"
"Diagnosis? Perforated diaphagram"
"Urine output is the best measure of fluid resuscitation."
"Shortened and externally rotated hip after trauma = hip fracture"
"A(n) sliding hernia should be suspected when the posterior wall of the hernia sac feels thickened"
"Femoral hernias are associated with the e::letter in the NAVeL mnemonic"
"What type of hernia is associated with multigravida? Femoral hernia"
"A patient presents two days post-abdominal surgery with absent bowel sounds, no passage of gas, mild distension and no pain. What is most likely occurring? Post-op ileus"
"A(n) Richters hernia can mislead clinicians into thinking hernia is not incarcerated"
"Ischemic orchitis is most commonly due to thrombosis of pampiniform plexus"
"Increased intra-abdominal pressure::factor? → ↑ risk for hernia"
"Femoral hernia = highest risk for incarceration"
"CT::imaging can distinguish between postoperative ileus and SBO"
"Inflammatory breast cancer next step? Punch biopsy"
"Triple (-) breast cancer should include breast conserving therapy (lumpectomy, SLNB, and radiation) and chemotherapy"
"What is breast conserving therapy? (3) Lumpectomy (partial mastectomy) Sentinel lymph node biopsy Radiation therapy"
"DCIS::condition is a precursor for invasive ductal carcinoma (breast)LCIS::condition has ↑ risk for invasive carcinoma (either type, either breast)"
"What is the most accurate test of ejection fraction? Nuclear ventriculography; multiple-gated acquisition scan (MUGA)"
"Stanford type A aortic dissection = ascending::ascending/descending aorta + treated surgically::surgically/medically Stanford type B aortic dissection = descending::ascending/descending aorta and treated medically (IV β-Blockers)::surgically/medically"
"Nitrates should be avoided in right-sided myocardial infarction"
"Treatment of right-sided HF is IVF"
"Which of the following symptoms is the worst single finding predictive of aortic stenosis: Angina Syncope CHF CHF"
"Should someone with ST segment elevation and widened mediastinum get thrombolytics? No"
"How are inhalational burn injuries diagnosed? Fiberoptic bronchoscopy"
"What urine output should be targeted in adults vs. kids with burns? 0.5 vs. 2-4 mL/kg/kh"
"A FAST exam cannot::can/cannot see retroperitoneal fluid"
"Imaging technique for evaluating neck trauma when there are no hard signs? CT angiography (evaluate vessels)"
"What is the first sign in cardiac tamponade? Impaired diastolic filling"
"Rapid deceleration blunt chest trauma (e.g. suicide fall) leads to risk of aortic transection::diagnosis"
"Prior to reducing a dislocated limb, get a(n) X-ray to confirm dislocation and rule out associated fractures"
"What is the treatment for blunt carotid injury? Anticoagulation"
"Post-trauma → contrast extravasation from duodenum into retroperitoneum is managed with ex-lap::next step"
"What is management of any penetrating wound below 4th intercostal space (level of nipples) in an intoxicated pt? Ex-lap"
"C"
"Neurogenic shock results from failure of the SNS to maintain vascular tone, which can lead to priapism::penis"
"Compartment syndrome due to loss of circulation can lead to a(n) Volkmann's contracture"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a gunshot wound in the right thigh? The right lower extremity does not have hard signs / hemodynamic instability. Anke-Brachial Index (ABI) and CT angiography if ABI < 0.9::2"
"What is the management of unstable pelvic fracture? Angiographic embolization"
"What should be considered in a patient with uncontrollable pain and flail chest, who develops deteriorating blood gases following blunt trauma? Pulmonary contusion"
"What is the surgical management for a hemodynamically stable patient with a spleen or liver injury (on FAST or CT)? Splenic embolization"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with penetrating abdominal trauma without peritonitis, evisceration, and hemodynamic instability? CT"
"Screening for cervical trauma = X-ray::imaging"
"Crohn disease is typically characterized by right::right/left lower quadrant pain/masses"
"During a Rinne test: Air louder than bone = sensorineural (or normal)::sensorineural or normal/conductive deficit Bone louder than air = conductive::sensorineural/conductive deficit"
"During a Weber test: Sensorineural hearing loss = louder in unaffected::affected/unaffected ear Conductive hearing loss = louder in affected::affected/unaffected ear"
"What is the cause of premature ventricular contractions in a patient with a high pCO2? Hypoxemia"
"Fifth finger = C8::dermatome level"
"Diagnosis? Chronic subdural hematoma"
"What is the FENa and urine [Na] in acute tubular necrosis (intrinsic renal failure)? > 2% (elevated); > 40"
"How do you treat septic shock? Treating sepsis: IV broad spectrum antibiotics Treating shock: aggressive IV fluids and pressors"
"High likelihood of PE, what to do first? Anticoagulate::Anticoagulate/CTA"
"Oliguria is a urine output of <0.5 mL/kg/h Anuria is a urine output of <50-100mL over 24 hours"
"What patients are at greatest risk for IV contrast-induced AKI? Preexisting renal damage (e.g. diabetes, glomerulonephritis)"
"Oliguria is often seen post-op because of increases in aldosterone::hormone and ADH::hormone"
"What should you do if a patient with severe pancreatitis develops a fever and leukocytosis three weeks into their hospitalization? IVF/cultures/IV antibiotics → Contrast CT (for necrotic tissue or peripancreatic abscess)::imaging"
"Persistent abdominal pain, fevers, and nausea beyond a few days following laparoscopic cholecystectomy = common bile / cystic duct injury causing a biloma::surgical complication"
"What nutrition support is given in pancreatitis patients if NPO exceeds 5-7 days? Enteral nutrition (NJ tube)"
"What is the recommended management of gallbladder polyps >10mm? Laparoscopic cholecystectomy"
"Following pancreatic head resection for cancer, a drain is left in place. This drain has a high hourly output of milky grey-white fluid with a \sheen\\" on the bulb drain. What is likely occurring? Pancreatic leak\""
"CA 19-9 is used to monitor recurrence of  pancreatic adenocarcinoma"
"Ursodeoxycholic acid (ursodiol) is used for gallstone dissolution (non-acute)::condition"
"Hemolysis (sickle cell / thalassemia) = ↑ risk of black::black/brown pigment stones Biliary tract infection = ↑ risk of brown::black/brown pigment stones"
"What is the second most common cause of acute pancreatitis? Alcohol"
"Strongest risk factor for gastric cancer = H. Pylori infection"
"Submucosal GI mass that is c-KIT (+) = gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)::neoplasm"
"Ampullary (of Vater) cancer is a biliary cancer with obstructive jaundice and anemia/UGI bleed"
"Any patient who has had aortic surgery and implantation of a graft that develops upper GI bleeding should be evaluated for aortoenteric fistula"
"What is the best noninvasive test to confirm diagnosis of H. pylori infection? Urea breath test"
"Once a diagnosis of gastric cancer is made via endoscopy, endoscopic US::imaging is used to help with TNM staging and abdominal CT::imaging is used to confirm the patient is a surgical candidate (r/o distant mets)"
"Red blood in stool is managed with NG tube::next step?"
"Cecum is most common site of colon perforation"
"Abdominal CT with oral and IV contrast::Diagnostic test-specific? is the test of choice for diagnosing diverticulitis while it can be followed up with colonoscopy::what diagnostic test? to assess the extent of diverticulitis and rule out malignancy"
"What is the treatment for cecal volvulus? Right hemicolectomy with primary ileocolic anastamosis"
"Causes of Appendicitis: Adults = fecalith obstruction Children = lymphoid hyperplasia obstruction"
"Streptococcus bovis and Clostridia septicum are associated with colon cancer"
"Right-sided diverticulosis = bleed::bleed/infected Left-sided diverticulosis = infected::bleed/infected"
"What is the classic cause of pseudoappendicitis? Yersinia enteroclitica"
"Hyperplastic colonic polyps are the most common and are benign::benign or malignant"
"Sudden onset of right-sided varicocele is suspicious for renal cell carcinoma or thrombus *bonus: what is the next step in management?"
"Treatment of testicular torsion is bilateral orchiopexy"
"Child with history of URI, presenting with: palpable purpura on the buttocks and legs arthralgias (joint pain) scrotal pain abdominal pain and melena (blood in stools) hematuria Henoch-Schonlein purpura::Vasculitis?"
"Schistosoma haematobium infection is associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder in Middle eastern males"
"What four risk factors are associated with transitional cell bladder carcinoma? (4) Phenacetin Smoking Aniline dyes Cyclophosphamide"
"Leydig::Leydig/Sertoli cell tumors can produce androgens that cause precocious puberty"
"22-year-old male with a non-tender testicular mass, testicular cancer is the most likely diagnosis"
"Painful hematuria = UTI or obstruction Painless hematuria = malignancy"
"For those with peripheral artery disease, after getting an ABI, get a(n) angiogram::imaging before doing revascularization"
"What is the single most effective drug in peripheral artery disease? Cilostazol"
"What is the first line imaging for pheochromocytoma? Contrast CT or MRI"
"Open::Laparoscopic/Open adrenalectomy is preferred for malignant::benign or malignant lesions"
"Primary hyperparathyroidism is associated with a disease in which cystic bone spaces are filled with brown fibrous tissue which predisposes patients to pathologic fractures. What is the name of this disease? Osteitis fibrosa cystica"
"What is the first step in evaluating an incidentally discovered adrenal mass? Biochemical workup to determine functional vs nonfunctional"
"What conditions are associated with MEN2A? (3) Parathyroid adenoma Pheochromocytoma Medullary thyroid carcinoma"
"Size is the most predictive variable for onset of heart failure in A-V fistulas"
"Which two antibodies are associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis? Anti-TPO antibody (↑ anti-microsomal antibodies) Anti-TG antibody"
"Mesothelioma = bloody, exudative::transudative/exudative pleural effusion and pleural thickening"
"Jaundice that occurs in a post-trauma patient who gets lots of blood transfusions is due to overproduction of bilirubin"
"Can a jejunosotomy tube (J-tube) deliver food? Yes"
"Bite wounds on the hands/feet should not::should/should not be closed"
"Uncircumcised penis with a painless ulcer and bilateral inguinal adenopathy = penile cancer"
"Hiatal hernias with a long history of GERD is assessed with a barium swallow followed by a(n) EGD::test"
"Uncorrected left-to-right shunting leads to pulmonary hypertension, causing reversal of the shunt (right to left), causing late cyanosis"
"Intraparenchymal hemorrhage most commonly occurs due to rupture of Charcot-Bouchard microaneurysms, secondary to chronic hypertension"
"What is the treatment for thyroglossal duct cysts? Sistrunk procedure (surgical excision)"
"In addition to plasma free metanephrine, a change in chromogranin A::serum marker can help support diagnosis of pheochromocytoma"
"C"
"Post-adrenalectomy hypotension, hypoglycemia, ↓ Na and ↑ K = adrenal insufficiency"
"A malignant pheochromocytoma is diagnosed by presence of metastasis at sites normally devoid of chromaffin tissue"
"Patient losing airway due to neck hematoma → re-open wound::next step"
"The external branch of the superior laryngeal nerve is damaged during thyroidectomy. How will the patient present? Loss of high pitch speaking or singing"
"Measuring intraoperative PTH levels confirms successful surgical resection of parathyroids"
"Surgical management for primary hyperparathyroidism due to four gland hyperplasia? Remove 3.5 glands"
"Child-Pugh Score: A pre-op assessment of hepatic risk factors should include: Bilirubin::breakdown product PT/INR::coagulation Albumin::liver product Encephalopathy (high ammonia)::status Ascites::physical"
"Severe nutritional depletion is identified by: - 20% loss of body weight over a couple of months; - Serum albumin < 3 - Anergy to skin antigens - Serum transferrin < 200 mg/L"
"What are two metabolic contraindications to surgery? DKA High blood glucose"
"Migratory thrombophlebitis (Trousseau syndrome) is seen in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma::condition"
"What biliary disease is characterized by a \beads-on-a-string\\" appearance on MRCP::imaging modality? Primary sclerosing cholangitis\""
"What is the diagnostic test for biliary strictures? MRCP"
"RLQ pain, nausea, vomiting, anorexia (loss of appetite) and fever is suggestive of acute appendicitis::diagnosis and warrants immediate surgery::treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient living in a nursing facility that presents with a 2 x 1 cm skin ulcer overlying the sacral region? Pressure (decubitus) ulcer"
"Treatment for compression ulcers? Roll (prophylaxis)"
"What kind of ulcer is edematous, indurated, and hyperpigmented, commonly located at the medial malleolus? Venous insufficiency"
"How are venous insufficiency ulcers treated? Compression socks / elevate legs to reduce edema"
"Marjolin ulcer::Type of ulcer? is a squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) due to a chronically draining sinus tract or wound"
"Marjolin ulcers are treated with resection"
"The risk of developing breast cancer is directly correlated with lifetime exposure to estrogen"
"In addition to estrogen exposure, radiation to the chest (e.g. for lymphoma) and BRCA1/2 mutation increases risk for breast cancer"
"Screening modality for breast cancer for pt w/ normal risk = mammography Screening modality for breast cancer for pt w/ high risk (family hx, radiation) = MRI"
"Biopsy test of choice to confirm breast cancer = core needle biopsy"
"A sentinel lymph node biopsy should be done before::before/after an axillary lymph node biopsy to determine stage of cancer"
"Best initial treatment for breast cancer is lumpectomy and radiation"
"HER2/neu (+) breast cancer treatment and side effect? Trastuzumab (herceptin); reversible cardiotoxicity"
"Late, dose-dependent, irreversible dilated cardiomyopathy? Doxorubicin::Doxorubicin/Trastuzumab Early, dose-independent, reversible dilated cardiomyopathy? Trastuzumab::Doxorubicin/Trastuzumab"
"All ER+ and/or PR+ breast cancers should receive tamoxifen/raloxifene (SERMs)::pre-menopause or aromatase inhibitors*::post-menopause"
"Tamoxifen::Tamoxifen/Raloxifene is an antagonist at breast and an agonist at bone and uterus"
"BRCA-positive individuals are recommended to have a(n) prophylactic bilateral mastectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy to decrease incidence of ovarian cancer and breast cancer"
"Under what conditions should a patient with a breast lump receive a mammogram and core needle biopsy? 1) The patient is older than 30 years old 2) The ultrasound shows a(n) mass 3) The aspirate is bloody 4) The cyst recurs"
"What is the next best step in working up a breast lump in a patient under 30? Reassurance"
"< 30 y.o. woman with breast lump, initially reassurance (watch/wait); if it persists, then get a(n) ultrasound::what kind of imaging"
"What is the next best step in working up a persistent breast lump that resembles a cyst on ultrasound in a patient under 30? Aspirate"
"Which Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score is an indication for intubation? < 8"
"Expanding hematoma or emphysema in neck → intubation::next step"
"Treatment of an epidural/subdural hematoma is craniotomy (remove skull flap to evacuate hematoma)::surgical technique"
"Myocardial contusion should be monitored with ECG and cardiac enzymes::two tools to screen for arrhythmias and cardiac function"
"Blunt Abdominal Trauma Assessment: 1) Stable? CT scan 2) Unstable? FAST 3) If (2) is inconclusive? DPL 4) If (2) is (+)? Ex-lap 5) If (2) is not available? Ex-lap"
"If TSH is elevated, what is the next step to take? RAIU"
"Suspicious thyroid nodules (cold, growing) should be evaluated with FNA"
"Sestamibi scan = localize parathyroid glands"
"A pt is thought to have Cushing's disease/syndrome. A 24 hr urine cortisol test confirms hypercortisolism. Follow up ACTH testing is low. What is the diagnosis? Cushing's syndrome 2/2 adrenal tumor (get CT/MRI to confirm)"
"Close PDA = indomethacin::drug"
"D-transposition of the great vessels is associated with maternal diabetes"
"What is the treatment for Transposition of the Great Vessels without a VSD? Prostaglandin E1; Ballon atrial septostomy (BAS)"
"What is the most important indicator of prognosis for melanoma? Depth of invasion"
"Amblyopia caught at an early age (< 8) is treated by patching the good::good/bad eye"
"Failure of visual development in the CNS results in amblyopia::condition"
"Hereditary retinoblastoma = ↑ risk of osteosarcoma::neoplasm"
"Retinopathy of prematurity is an eye complication associated with supplemental O2 therapy in neonatal respiratory distress babies (due to neovascularization)"
"Acute closed-angle glaucoma results in a(n) painful::painless/painful, red eye that is fixed and mid-dilated"
"Renal cell carcinoma is managed with resection::treatment?"
"Explain how someone with ureteropelvic junction obstruction still has normal urinary output to flow most of the time? Only if large diuresis occurs → the narrow area cannot handle it"
"What would you normally see in a patient with low implantation of a ureter? In what gender? Wet with urine all the time; little girls"
"Ewing sarcoma is a bone tumor that is associated with t(11;22) translocation"
"Jersey finger is sustained extension::extension/flexion of finger when trying to flex::flex/extend Mallet finger is sustained flexion of finger when trying to extend::flex/extend"
"Inability to flex middle finger but pops with forced flexion is suggestive of trigger finger::diagnosis"
"Severe, throbbing pain with edema and erythema of a finger pad is likely to be what? Felon"
"Dysuria and urinary retention following penile fracture is managed with retrograde urethrogram::next step"
"A 2nd degree burn that progresses to 3rd degree burn while in the hospital is concerning for burn wound sepsis"
"What is the underlying etiology in a patient with severe COPD who develops altered consciousness and seizures after administration of supplemental O2? O2-induced CO2 retention"
"Next step after electrical burn is ECG"
"Exudative pleural effusions must meet one of Light's criteria, which are: Pleural protein/serum protein > 0.5 Pleural LDH/serum LDH > 0.6 or Pleural LDH 2/3 upper limit of normal serum LDH"
"How does the PaO2/FiO2 ratio change in patients with ARDS? Decreased (< 300 mmHg)"
"Ménétrier disease is characterized by excess mucus production with resultant protein loss, leading to edema"
"What is the first test/imaging study that should be ordered to diagnose pancreatitis in a patient with acute epigastric abdominal pain that radiates to the back? Serum amylase and lipase"
"A triad of sudden RUQ pain, fever and leukocytosis is suggestive of acute cholecystitis"
"Choledocholithiasis is a biliary disease that involves the presence of gallstones in the common bile duct"
"The Charcot triad for acute cholangitis consists of: Fever Jaundice RUQ pain"
"Hepatocellular carcinoma = ↑ AFP::what serum marker?"
"What inherited hematologic pathology is associated with an increased MCHC? Hereditary spherocytosis"
"Anemia with (+) osmotic fragility test is suggestive of hereditary spherocytosis::condition"
"\Dermatitis"
"If a tumor in an appendix is <1 cm, appendectomy is definitive management If a tumor in an appendix is > 1 cm, right hemicolectomy is definitive management"
"Within first 10 mins of birth, with either a pulse <100 or respiratory difficulties (gasping, apnea), what is the next best step in management? PPV"
"Neonate born prematurely with a month of continuing oxygen requirements and X-ray shows ground glass opacities (scarring) is suggestive of Bronchopulmonary dysplasia::diagnosis"
"What is the prenatal and postnatal treatment for bronchopulmonary dysplasia? Prental → Steroids (mom) Postnatal → Surfactant"
"Retinopathy of prematurity is due to high levels of oxygen causing neoangiogenesis in the eye"
"Retinopathy of prematurity is managed with laser::treatment"
"Initial management of necrotizing enterocolitis includes supportive care and initiation of broad-spectrum IV antibiotics"
"Bronchopulmonary dysplasia is characterized by improper progression of alveolarization (larger and fewer in number) that is reversible::reversible/irreversible over time"
"Diagnostics of meconium ileus? 1) X-ray::Imaging? showing gas-filled plug 2) Gastrografin water-soluble contrast enema::Imaging? showing microcolon"
"Down syndrome::Congenital condition is a condition associated with ↑ risk of Hirschsprung disease"
"Could present as failure to pass meconium in a 2 day old, or as constipation in a 2 year old? Hirschsprung disease"
"Hirschsprung's disease presenting with constipation is evaluated with anorectal manometry showing increased tone"
"Double bubble sign and NORMAL distal gas pattern = malrotation"
"Double-bubble sign and multiple air-fluid levels is suggestive of intestinal atresia::diagnosis"
"Term neonate having difficulty with first feeds; coughing and spitting up any feeds, gurgling bubbles between attempts? TE fistula"
"Term male neonate with projectile vomiting; alkalotic with visible peristalsis? Pyloric stenosis"
"Bilious emesis = obstruction distal to ligament of Trietz"
"Following X-ray, how do you diagnose malrotation? Upper GI Series (barium swallow)"
"What is a complication of malrotation? Acute torsion of intestines due to malrotation → volvulus"
"Difference between malrotation and volvulus? Malrotation is the developmental anatomic defect Volvulus is torsion of the intestines because of the malrotation"
"What is the pathophysiology of duodenal atresia? Failure of the duodenum to recanalize → backs up GI tract → can't swallow amniotic fluid"
"Neonate with polyhydramnios in utero, now bilious emesis; distended stomach and proximal duodenum with no distal air on X-ray? What is on the ddx? Duodenal atresia Annular pancreas::2"
"Intestinal (jejunoileal) atresia is often due to maternal cocaine/tobacco::risk factor use and causes vasoconstriction::vasoconstriction/vasodilation, leading to necrosis/resorption of the fetal intestine"
"- Duodenal atresia - Annular pancreas - Malrotation/volvulus - Intestinal atresia → Bilious vomit::Bilious/Non-bilious - Pyloric stenosis - Tracheoesophageal fistula → Non-bilious vomit::Bilious/Non-bilious"
"Physiologic::Pathologic/Physiologic jaundice is primarily unconjugated"
"Unconjugated bilirubin with (+) Coombs Test = isoimmunization::cause"
"Unconjugated bilirubin with high Hgb = transfusion::cause"
"Unconjugated bilirubin with high reticulocyte count = hemolysis/hemorrhage::cause"
"Baby with high conjugated bilirubin is managed with RUQ U/S or HIDA::next step"
"What is seen on x-ray for diagnosis of congenital diaphragmatic hernia? Loops of bowel in the thorax"
"Neonate with extra-abdominal intestines; to the right of the umbilicus and not contained in a membrane? Gastroschisis"
"Is gastroschisis or omphalocele associated with more health concerns, ex. chromosomal abnormalities? Omphalocele"
"What is the initial treatment for omphalocele and gastroschisis? Wrap in sterile wet gauze (silo)"
"How is biliary atresia diagnosed? U/S → absence of intrahepatic ducts With equivocal U/S → HIDA scan with 5-7 days of phenobarbital stimulation"
"Complications of cleft lip/palate include recurrent otitis media::infection, hearing problems, speech defects, and feeding difficulties (FTT)"
"Term neonate with midline mucosal structure protruding from the abdominal wall below the umbilicus; red, moist, and wet? Bladder exstrophy"
"Neural tube defects are detected during prenatal care by elevated alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels in the amniotic fluid and maternal blood"
"Midline dimple or tuft of hair along lower back is suggestive of spina bifida occulta::condition"
"Failed closure of vertebral lamina and meningeal herniation is seen in meningocele::condition"
"At what age will a child be able to: 2 steps (climb steps) 2 word phrases 2 step commands 6 blocks 2 years old"
"Order of growth measurements affected with failure to thrive? Weight then height then head circumference::3"
"At which age should a baby be able to walk on its own? 12 months"
"At what age will a child be able to: Sit Switch (transfer object from hand-to-hand) Shmooze (babble) Stranger anxiety Six months"
"At what age will a child be able to: Hop Play with other kids Copy a cross 4 years old"
"At what age will a child have: Two-legs (walking) Tracking (object permanence) Two-words (papa/mama and one other word) Two-of-us (separation anxiety) 12 months"
"# word phrases/sentences at 1 -5 years? 1 - 5"
"Yellow fever vaccine is contraindicated in those with a(n) egg allergy"
"MMRV and influenza (intranasal) is contraindicated in immunodeficient patients"
"Temperature accepted as a normal reaction to a vaccine? <104°F"
"Two populations especially important to vaccinate against pneumococcal infections? Immunocompromised Asplenics"
"Spasms/hypertonicity in an infant of a poorly-immunized mother with poor umbilical stump management is suggestive of neonatal tetanus::diagnosis"
"Antibiotic for tetanus = metronidazole"
"All adolescents should get at least one dose of Tdap; then Tdap or Td can be given as a booster q10 years (at least three total lifetime doses)"
"When presented with a wound, consideration for tetanus vaccination begins with determining whether three lifetime doses have been given or not."
"If someone with a wound has had <3 lifetime doses of tetanus vaccine, the next question is whether the wound is clean or dirty"
"3+ lifetime doses, clean wound, 10+ years since booster 3+ lifetime doses, dirty wound, 5+ years since booster TDAP::next step"
"<3 lifetime doses of the tetanus vaccine and dirty wound is managed with TDAP and TIG (tetanus IVIg)::next step"
"3 lifetime tetanus doses and: - clean wound with last booster within 10 years, or - dirty wound with last booster within 5 years No Tdap needed → discharge::next step"
"Immigrant with minimal medical care presenting with tonic muscle spasms in the limbs, inability to swallow; preceeded by jaw stiffness? Tetanus::Dx"
"Corynebacterium diphtheria::Which bug will produce a(n) gray::color pseudomembrane on the posterior pharynx and upper airways"
"Diphtheria is treated with antitoxin to neutralize exotoxin and antibiotics"
"Vaccine contraindicated in anyone that has had intussusception? Rotavirus"
"There is benefit to both girls and boys in receiving the HPV vaccine T::T/F"
"If a child is lost to follow-up before completing their hepatitis A or B immunizations, do they need to restart the series? No, just pick up where they left off"
"What is a Brief Resolved Unexplained Event (BRUE)? (4) Must be <1 minute event in an infant <1 year old: - Δ color (red, blue, pale) - Δ muscle tone (hyper- or hypotonic) - Δ respirations (choking, gagging, apnea) - Δ responsiveness"
"What is Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS)? Death of an infant without apparent reason based on the autopsy or during review of the scene"
"Ways to prevent sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)? - \Back to sleep\\" - Ø bed sharing - Smoking cessation - Pacifier use during sleep\""
"Adolescent hit in the side of the head with a baseball, LOC for 90 seconds, regains consciousness, but loses it again? Imaging would show? Epidural hematoma → biconcave lens-shaped hematoma"
"Infant brought into the ED with altered LOC, found to be comatose; CT head shows subdural? Shaken baby syndrome (abuse)::Diagnosis?"
"Deceleration injuries → coup & contra-coup injuries → loss of consciousness. CT shows intraparenchymal punctate hemorrhages: Cerebral contusion::Diagnosis?"
"Ages for car seats and booster seats? - Car seats (rear-facing) = 0-4 years* - Booster seats = until 4'9\ and 5-12 years\""
"Football player involved in a hard tackle, wobbly but no LOC; normal exam with no focial deficits -- next steps? Mild concussion → remove from the game, no imaging needed"
"What is the rule for calculating the percentage of skin involved in burns in pediatrics? - Head: 9% each side (18% total) - Thorax: 18% each side (36% total) - Arms: 9% each (18% total) - Legs: 13.5% each (27% total) - Genitals: 1%"
"Child not crying in a situation with a care-giver where you would expect them to? Abuse"
"Unarousable infant assessed for lethargy; hemorrhages on funduscopic exam? Shaken baby syndrome"
"Most significant parental risk factor for child abuse? Being abused themselves"
"What is the etiology of erythema infectiosum (Fifth's disease)? Parvovirus B19"
"Parvovirus B19 is a ssDNA virus that causes RBC destruction in fetus, thereby leading to hydrops fetalis and death"
"SSPE (subacute sclerosing panencephalitis) is seen 5-15 years after infection with measles (rubeola)"
"Ddx for rubella and measles childhood exanthems: Rubella rash: Begins at head and moves down and postauricular lymphadenopathy Measles: Begins at head and moves down and preceded by cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, and Koplik spots"
"Roseola (HHV6)::Condition includes a high fever followed by a diffuse macular rash that spares the face"
"Rash - Diffuse, itchy vesicles on erythematous base - Different stages of healing HHV-3 (varicella-zoster virus)::diagnosis"
"Immunocompromised adult (>60) Prodromal pain Dermatomal vesicular rash Never crosses midline Herpes zoster (shingles)::Diagnosis?"
"In addition to bilateral parotitis, mumps may also present with orchitis, aseptic meningitis, and pancreatitis"
"Coxsackie A is a virus that causes hand-foot-and-mouth disease"
"What is a complication of roseola? Extreme spiking in the prodrome that may cause febrile seizures"
"Bulging fontanelle in an irritable baby is suggestive of meningitis::diagnosis"
"What are the treatments for meningitis? (3) Vancomycin Ceftriaxone (<1mo → Cefotaxime) Ampicillin"
"What are the diagnostic tests for HIV/AIDS? <18 months old → DNA PCR >18 months old → ELISA/Western blot"
"What is the most common cause of osteomyelitis in the following populatons: General: Staph aureus Penetrating: Pseudomonas Sickle cell: Staph aureus > Salmonella Diabetes mellitus: Polymicrobial"
"Which parasite commonly affects the webspace of the fingers and feet? Scabies"
"Lice or scabies treatment is managed with topical permethrin::drug or oral ivermectin"
"Children, itchy anus, scotch tape test = Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm)::nematode"
"Interpretations of the PPD skin test for TB? - Positive for everyone → >15 mm - Homeless, prison, healthcare → >10 mm - Immunosuppressed, close contacts → >5 mm"
"Should former BCG vaccine affect interpretation of PPD? Yes- can result in false positive"
"- Urticaria (widespread) - Hypotension - Wheezing = Anaphylaxis::diagnosis"
"What is the treatment for anaphylaxis? Epinephrine 1:1000 IM"
"Erythema and wheals without hypotension is suggestive of urticaria::diagnosis"
"Airway swelling after starting ACE-Inhibitor is suggestive of angioedema::diagnosis"
"C1 esterase inhibitor deficiency results in hereditary angioedema and pts should not use ACE-inhibitors::drug class"
"Pale, boggy mucosa, polyps, cobblestoning? Allergic rhinitis::Diagnosis?"
"Formula-fed infant presenting with vomiting, bloody diarrhea, and failure to thrive? Milk protein allergy Cross-reactivity with soy"
"What are the three most common bacterial causes of acute otitis media (AOM)? Streptococcus pneumoniae Haemophilus influenzae Moraxella catarrhalis"
"Unilateral ear pain → relief with pulling on pinna = otitis media Unilateral ear pain → no relief with pulling on pinna = otitis externa"
"Child tugging at a painful ear for the last day; low-grade fever, erythema, bulging membrane, loss of light reflex; immobile tympanic membrane on pneumatic insufflation? Acute otitis media → observation or amoxicillin::Diagnosis and treatment?"
"Etiology of Otitis Externa - Water/swimming → Pseudomonas - Digital trauma → S. aureus"
"Acute otitis media, mastoid swelling and anteriorly rotated ear is suggestive of mastoiditis::diagnosis"
"What are the common bacterial causes of sinusitis? (3) S. pneumoniae H. influenza M. catarrhalis"
"Congestion, bilateral purulent nasal discharge and pain with facial tap is suggestive of sinusitis::diagnosis"
"Child with over a week of rhinorrhea, initially seemed to improve but now worsening; purulent discharge bilaterally, febrile, facial tenderness? Cold → Superinfection → Bacterial sinusitis::Diagnosis? Amoxicillin-Clavulanate (Augmentin)::Treatment?"
"Child with 3 days of rhinorrhea; afebrile, no lymphadenopathy, clear, non-purulent discharge, no facial tenderness? Viral cold → reassurance/supportive care"
"What is the pathology of pharyngitis? Viral or Group A Strep Viral >> GAS"
"Treating Group A Strep pharyngitis prevents post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN) F::T/F"
"Child with sore throat and pain with swallowing is suggestive of pharyngitis::diagnosis"
"Infectious mononucleosis patients develop a(n) rash if exposed to ampicillin/amoxicillin (aminopencillins)"
"Anterior epistaxis is managed with cauterize::treatment Posterior epistaxis is managed with packing::treatment"
"Atretic or anatomically stenosed connection between the nose and throat is suggestive of choanal atresia::diagnosis"
"- Cyanosis with feeds → pinking up with crying - Childhood snoring with partial obstruction Choanal atresia::Diagnosis?"
"Croup is a viral respiratory infection caused by parainfluenzavirus that involves a seal-like barking cough"
"What is the treatment of croup (laryngotracheobronchitis)? Mild croup → cool mist and steroids::two Moderate croup (stridor at rest) → steroids + racemic epinephrine::two"
"Upper airway condition that improves with racemic epinephrine? Croup"
"Child with sore throat; presumed to have croup but not responding to racemic epinephrine? Bacterial tracheitis"
"3 yo recent immigrant acutely ill; sitting up and leaning forward, drooling, toxic appearing: Epiglottitis → prepare for intubation in the OR::Diagnosis and next step?"
"Toxic-appearing child that is febrile, drooling, and tripoding? Epiglottitis"
"\Thumb-sign\\" on lateral X-ray: H. influenzae"
"- Sick, rapid onset, with high-spiking fever - Drooling, neck extended, muffled/\hot-potato\\" voice - Unilateral anterior lymphadenopathy with tender mass Retropharyngeal abscess; CT::Diagnosis and Next Step Imaging?\""
"Upper airway infections that present with drooling and \hot-potato\\" muffled voice? Epiglottitis Retropharyngeal abscess Peritonsillar abscess::3\""
"Extrathoraic obstruction → inspiratory::inspiratory/expiratory stridor Intrathoracic obstruction → expiratory::inspiratory/expiratory wheeze"
"Tracheal obstruction = (-::+/-) coin sign on AP and (+::+/-) coin sign on lateral x-ray"
"Pulmonary function testing (PFTs) → ↓ FEV1/FVC, but shows significant improvement with bronchodilators is suggestive of asthma::diagnosis"
"Albuterol/ipratropium nebulizer is used for acute asthma attacks"
"Inflammation of the small airways/bronchioles caused usually by RSV is suggestive of bronchiolitis::diagnosis"
"What is the most common primary agent causing bronchiolitis? RSV"
"Palivizumab is a monoclonal antibody that can be used as prophylaxis against RSV in high-risk infants < 2 years of age"
"What are complications of bronchiolitis? (2) Apnea Respiratory failure"
"Usually detected on prenatal screen, but also: - immigrant with limited healthcare - meconium ileus (first day of life) - recurrent pulmonary infections (older) - failure to thrive (loss of pancreatic exocrine function) - salty baby → Cystic fibrosis::diagnosis"
"What is the most accurate (and first) diagnostic test for cystic fibrosis? Sweat chloride (induce via pilocarpine)"
"What is a seizure? Synchronous firing of the awake brain"
"What makes a seizure \complex\\"? Loss of consciousness (+LOC)\""
"What makes a seizure \partial\\"? Only involving single part of brain producing a single type of symptom\""
"Abnormal electrical activity that is localized to one hemisphere and impairs consciousness; symptoms include behavioral arrest, automatisms (lip smacking, chewing), sensory hallucinations, and/or repetitive clonic movement: Complex partial seizure (focal seizure with impaired awareness)::Diagnosis?"
"Simple::Simple/Complex febrile seizures have the following: - Generalized (bilateral upper/lower extremities) - <15 mins - Single episode in 24h"
"Seizure with blank stare (suspected ADHD) and no post-ictal confusion is suggestive of absence seizure::diagnosis?"
"Absence epilepsy = ethosuximide::antiepileptic"
"Benzodiazepines (diazepam, lorazepam) are first line for acute attacks of status epilepticus, while phenytoin is first line for prophylaxis of status epilepticus"
"Premature baby with bloody diarrhea: Necrotizing enterocolitis::Diagnosis"
"X-ray/babygram → pneumatosis intestinalis (air in the wall of the bowel) is suggestive of necrotizing enterocolitis::diagnosis"
"What is the treatment for necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC)? NPO (bowel rest) and IVF and TPN IV antibiotics (G-ve and anaerobes)"
"Telescoping of the bowel into itself → vascular compromise is suggestive of intussusception::diagnosis"
"Child 3 mo - 3 yr, relief with knee-chest position and currant-jelly/bloody bowel movements is suggestive of intussusception::diagnosis"
"What is the most common presentation of Meckel diverticulum in a toddler? Painless hematochezia"
"How is Meckel diverticulum diagnosed? Technicium-99 radionucleotide scan (Meckel bleeding scan)"
"Intussusception = painful Meckel = painless"
"Test to differentiate between neonatal melena being from baby's blood loss vs. ingested maternal blood? Apt test"
"Classical presentation of Crohn's vs. ulcerative colitis? Crohn's → watery diarrhea and weight loss UC → bloody diarrhea"
"Bloody diarrhea, fever and history of travel or a local outbreak is suggestive of infectious colitis::diagnosis"
"Infant with bloody diarrhea that is failing to thrive is suggestive of milk-protein allergy::diagnosis"
"What is the treatment for milk-protein allergy? Switch to hydrolyzed formula"
"Left to right shunts are cyanotic False - (oxygenated blood from the LV going back through the lungs)::T/F"
"What is Eisenmenger syndrome? Reversal of a left → right shunt when RV hypertrophy makes it stronger than the LV"
"This is an example of transposition of the great vessels"
"Transposition of the great vessels is a cyanotic heart disease T::T/F"
"Tetralogy of Fallot is a non-cyanotic heart disease F - cyanotic::T/F"
"What is the pathology of coarctation of the aorta? Stenosis of the aorta past the great vessels, i.e. a descending stenosis"
"Hypertension in the upper extremities; hypotension in lower extremities → claudication (refusal to walk) is suggestive of coarctation of the aorta::diagnosis"
"Congenital cardiac defects are diagnosed with echo::imaging"
"What CXR finding is often found in patients with coarctation of the aorta? Notching of the ribs"
"\Boot-shaped\\" heart on x-ray Tetralogy of Fallot\""
"Ortolani and Barlow maneuvers → click with hip flexion is suggestive of developmental dysplasia of the hip::diagnosis"
"How is slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) diagnosed? Treatment? Frog-leg X-ray; Urgent surgical internal fixation with pinning of the femoral head"
"Ewing sarcoma arises in the diaphysis of long bones (femur::classic bone)"
"Child with fracture involving the growth plate? Next step? ORIF → realign growth plate to prevent stunted growth"
"Osteosarcoma arises in the metaphysis of long bones, often around the knee (femur/tibia)::location"
"Strabismus or congenital cataracts → cortical blindness is suggestive of amblyopia::diagnosis"
"Light reflects from separate locations on each eye Strabismus::diagnosis"
"What is the treatment for strabismus (\crossed eyes\\")? Congenital → surgery Acquired → patch good::good/bad eye or glasses if a problem of refraction\""
"What is the main ddx for a newborn with cataracts (first day of life)? TORCH infections"
"Silver nitrate::Cause → chemical conjunctivitis"
"Bilateral, early-onset (2-5 days) purulent discharge from eyes = Gonorrhea::cause Unilateral, late-onset (7-12 days) muco-purulent discharge from eyes = Chlamydia::cause"
"Erythromycin::What drug? drops can be used to treat neonatal conjunctivitis caused by Neisseria gonorrhea and Chlamydia trachomatis"
"Ceftriaxone = drug of choice for gonorrhea"
"Vesicoureteral Reflux = ↑ risk for pyelonephritis/UTIs"
"What three conditions precipitate sickling in sickle cell anemia? Hypoxemia Dehydration Acidosis"
"Sickle cell disease = ↑ bilirubin and ↓ Hgb and ↑ reticulocyte count"
"Prevent hemochromatosis in sickle cell patients getting transfusions is managed with deferoxamine::treatment"
"Sickle cell disease::Condition is associated with risk of autosplenectomy"
"What inherited hematologic pathology is associated with avascular necrosis (osteonecrosis)? Sickle cell disease"
"Sickle cell patient and anemia → folate and iron::supplements"
"CVID::Bruton's or CVID presents in adults::newborns/adults"
"In Ataxia-telangiectasia, deficiency of the ATM gene causes poor repair of DNA double strand breaks, leading to an increased risk for cancer (leukemia/lymphoma)"
"Telangiectasias and ↑ tumor risk is seen in ataxia-telangiectasia::condition"
"Which complement deficiency is associated with increased risk for Neisseria infection? C5-C9"
"Vitamin K deficiency → ↑ PT::PT/PTT time Severe Vitamin K deficiency = ↑ PT::PT/PTT and PTT::PT/PTT time"
"SCID = ↓ absolute lymphocyte count HIV = ↔ absolute lymphocyte count"
"Copper accumulation in liver / brain = Wilson disease::condition"
"DTaP vaccine and anaphylaxis or unstable neurologic disorders or encephalopathy are contraindications for getting the pertussis part of the vaccine"
"Long-term infant deprivation of affection may result in reactive attachment disorder, where the infant is emotionally withdrawn and unresponsive to comfort"
"Peripheral::Central/Peripheral precocious puberty is diagnosed when leuprolide (GnRH stimulation) causes no change in LH production"
"What is the mechanism of systemic progestins as a contraceptive? Inhibits GnRH/FSH/LH release → suppresses ovulation"
"What are the two mechanisms of locally-active progestins as a contraceptive? - Thickens cervical mucus → impairs sperm penetration - Endometrial atrophy → impairs implantation"
"What is the mechanism of copper IUD as a contraceptive? Creates chronic inflammatory response in uterus → impairs sperm migration"
"Long-acting reversible contraception (LARC) is the most effective group of contraception"
"Depo-provera is an injection of progesterone that lasts for three months::how long?"
"Which group of contraceptives have the highest risk of DVT/PE among contraceptives? Patches"
"Mini-pill is composed of only progestin and acts locally::locally/systemically"
"When a mom presents with third-trimester bleeding, what is your differential? Painless: Placenta previa::most common, vasa previa Painful: Abruptio placentae::most common, uterine rupture"
"How do you manage placental previa? Diagnose: ultrasound (transverse lie) Treat: C-section"
"What can cause uterine distension in placental abruption? Concealed bleedeing behind the placenta"
"How do you treat GBS (intrapartum)? First-line: Ampicillin/PCN Second-line: Cefazolin::if mild PCN allergy Third-line: Clindamycin::if severe PCN allergy Last-line: Vancomycin"
"Management of a mother with HBV consists of: Planned C-section::delivery method and Administration of IVIg Hep B and Hep B vaccine to baby at time of delivery"
"Is intra-amniotic infection an indication for C-section? No"
"Do you treat asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnant women? Yes!"
"What is shown here in the baby's diaper? Uric acid crystals"
"These are all manifestations of NF1::disease"
"↓ Cortisol, ↓ Na+ and ↑ K+ in infant is suggestive of 21-hydroxylase deficiency (CAH)::condition"
"Patient (young boy) presents with complaints of having to use arms to stand up from squat: Gowers sign - Duchenne muscular dystrophy"
"Pseudohypertrophy of calf mm. is suggestive of Duchenne muscular dystrophy::condition"
"High blood viscosity in a newborn can cause respiratory distress, cyanosis, hypoglycemia, and plethora"
"- Systolic - Grade 1-2/6 - Decreases with standing/valsalva Benign::Benign/Pathologic murmur in a child"
"Patient presents with vascular birthmark (port-wine stain) of the face Nevus flammeus"
"Breast feeding::milk/feeding jaundice = jaundice during first week of life. Breast milk::milk/feeding jaundice = jaundice persisting beyond first week of life"
"Potter sequence may be caused by obstructive uropathy (e.g. posterior urethral valves)"
"Fractures @ young age, blue sclera and hearing loss is suggestive of osteogenesis imperfecta::condition"
"Generalized seizures can lead to tongue laceration and LOC with post-ictal state"
"OCD = CBT and SSRIs::drug class"
"Asplenic patients have ↑ risk of infection by encapsulated bacteria::microbes, so give vaccines for S. Pneumo, H. Flu, and N. Meningitidis"
"Strep pneumoniae conjugate vaccine for children::adults or children produces a(n) IgG response"
"Tetanus and diphtheria = toxoid vaccine (deactivated toxin)::vaccine type"
"Acute leukemia may present acutely with symptoms of anemia, thrombocytopenia, and/or neutropenia"
"Acute rheumatic fever is a complication of Streptococcal Pharyngitis that presents 2-6 weeks after untreated Strep throat"
"What do decreased pulmonary markings mean? Pulmonary undercirculation"
"Tourette's syndrome is associated with ADHD::condition and OCD::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African-American patient that presents with polyuria and nocturia? Serum Na+ levels and urinalysis are normal. Hyposthenuria (secondary to sickle cell trait)"
"Basophilic RBC nuclear remnants Howell-Jolly bodies"
"Parotitis::condition is a feature of Mumps that presents with a swollen neck and parotid glands"
"Crescendo-decrescendo systolic murmur over the left second intercostal space is suggestive of pulmonic stenosis::diagnosis"
"Which position commonly helps patients with Tetralogy of Fallot by increasing TPR? Knee-Chest position"
"Ptosis, descending flaccid paralysis, constipation and drooling is suggestive of infant botulism::diagnosis"
"Podocyte fusion or \effacement\\" on electron microscopy Minimal change disease left: normal; right: MCD\""
"What is the initial treatment of choice for most patients with early localized Lyme disease? Oral doxycycline"
"What congenital heart defect presents with a holosystolic murmur at left lower sternal border and a mid-diastolic murmur at apex +/- systolic thrill? Ventricular septal defect"
"Elevated AFP and oligohydramnios = Gastroschisis::Congenital GI problem"
"Anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies is suggestive of GSE (celiac disease)::condition"
"Spherocytes may indicate: Hereditary spherocytosis::condition Autoimmune hemolytic anemia::condition"
"Swallowed coin and no stridor (X-ray below) is managed with endoscopy::next step Swallowed coin and stridor is managed with bronchoscope::next step"
"Streptococcus pneumonia is the most common cause of C-MOPS: Conjunctivitis (redness and discharge) Meningitis (fever, chills, headache, neck stiffness) Otitis media (ear pain) Pneumonia (fever, cough, chills) Sinusitis (nasal discharge, sinus tenderness)"
"Copies a line = 2 year old::developmental age"
"Parallel play = 2 years old::developmental age"
"Chlamydia conjunctivitis cannot::can/cannot be prevented by eyedrops"
"Inspiratory/Expiratory/Biphasic stridor? "
"Repeated ear infections can result in conductive hearing loss::diagnosis, which may be confused with behavioral disorders of childhood; therefore, get a(n) hearing test::what kind of test? in children presenting with social or language problems"
"Congenital hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is seen in Kallmann syndrome::condition"
"Abdominal mass that crosses the midline in a child is suggestive of neuroblastoma::diagnosis"
"Woman with lower abdominal pain, amenorrhea, vaginal bleeding and history of STI is suggestive of ectopic pregnancy::condition"
"Transient pain during ovulation is most likely Mittelschmerz::condition"
"Müllerian agenesis = primary::primary/secondary amenorrhea in females with developed::developed/underdeveloped secondary sexual characteristics"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with primary amenorrhea and the following physical exam: absent uterus/upper vagina, minimal pubic hair, and normal lower vagina, breast development? Androgen insensitivity syndrome"
"Androgen insensitivity syndrome = hair absent::present/absent Müllerian agenesis = hair present::present/absent"
"In kids, a negative rapid strep test should always be confirmed with throat culture before treating with penicillin/amoxicillin"
"Group A Strep (Pyogenes)::bacteria causes a sore throat, swollen tonsils with purulent exudate, anterior lymphadenopathy, lack of cough/rhinorrhea"
"Strep. pyogenes (group A) pharyngitis typically presents with: (+)::(-)/(+) fever (-)::(-)/(+) cough (-)::(-)/(+) rhinorrhea"
"Superior gluteal nerve injury is ipsilateral::contra/ipsilateral to the side that the patient stands on Superior gluteal nerve injury is contralateral to the side of the dropped hip"
"Aplastic anemia and short stature / physical abnormalities is suggestive of Fanconi anemia::condition"
"Who should receive Pertussis post-exposure prophylaxis? Everyone -- household and close contacts of infected people regardless of immunization status"
"Limited upward gaze, eyelid retraction and eyes non-reactive to light but intact accommodation is suggestive of Parinaud syndrome::diagnosis"
"ADHD alternative to stimulants = atomoxetine::drug or clonidine::drug"
"Simple febrile seizures are generalized::focal/generalized"
"Homocystinuria is a metabolic disorder that may present with Marfanoid habitus and lens subluxation (down)::down/up"
"Characteristics of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome::genetic condition: - Hyperelasticity of skin - Joint hypermobility - Tendency towards bleeding"
"Asthma exacerbation with poor response to albuterol/ipratropium nebs, IV steroids, magnesium, continuous albuterol nebulizer; later no wheezing and blood gases showing hypercapnic respiratory failure and hypoxemia? Management? Severe air trapping/no air movement → silent chest/no wheezing → status asmaticus Intubate"
"The symptoms of myotonic dystrophy may be remembered with the mnemonic \CTG\\": C: Cataracts T: Toupee (early balding in men) G: Gonadal atrophy Other symptoms include myotonia"
"What is the most accurate test for thalassemia? Hemoglobin electrophoresis"
"Hemophilia A/B/C = ↔::↑↓↔ PT and ↑::↑↓↔ PTT"
"The enzyme galactocerebrosidase is deficient in Krabbe disease"
"The enzyme glucocerebrosidase (β-glucosidase) is deficient in Gaucher disease"
"Joint custody of child, how many parental consents required to proceed with treatment? One"
"What CXR finding is characteristic of epiglottitis? \Thumbprint sign\\" (enlarged epiglottis)\""
"The symptoms of Langerhans cell histiocytosis involve children::age group, and cause symptoms in the bone::area and skin::area"
"Early activation of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis is suggestive of central precocious puberty::diagnosis"
"Aminopenicillins can cause a polymorphous, maculopapular rash if given in the setting of what viral illness? EBV infectious mononucleosis"
"Neuroblastoma arising in the cervical paravertebral sympathetic chain can present as isolated Horner syndrome"
"Neuroblastoma originates from neural crest cells, which are precursors to the sympathetic chain and adrenal medulla"
"Aspirin cannot::can/cannot be seen on x-ray Iron can::can/cannot be seen on x-ray"
"Deferoxamine, deferasirox, and deferiprone = iron chelators::class of drug"
"Classic galactosemia causes liver::organ damage, which manifests as jaundice and hepatomegaly"
"Screening for iron deficiency anemia is done at age 1 and is treated with oral iron"
"- Cough and congestion lasting > 10 days - Symptoms are severe (fever > 102, purulent mucus for > 3 days) - Symptoms worsen after initial improvement Bacterial rhinosinusitis; oral antibiotics (amoxicillin/clavulanate)::Diagnosis and treatment?"
"These are symptoms of hydrocephalus and should be followed with CT::next step"
"Primary amenorrhea and (-) Uterus → karyotype::next step"
"Treatment of Rabies (1) IVIG (passive immunization) (2) dead vaccine (active immunization) (Post-exposure prophylaxis is effective due to time lag between infecting motor end plate and replicating in motor neurons)"
"What are the five Ps of congenital hypothyroidism:?  Poor brain development (mental retardation) Protuberant tongue (macroglossia) and anterior fontanelle Pot belly and constipation Protruding umbilicus (hernia) Puffy faced "
"Irritant diaper dermatitis::Diagnosis"
"What is the diagnosis in patient with anal itching worse at night? Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm)"
"Tourette's syndrome is managed with behavioral training, anti-dopaminergic::NT and alpha-2 adrenergic agonists"
"Asymmetric red reflex is suggestive of strabismus::diagnosis"
"Why do Asians have increased risk of physiologic jaundice? Decreased UGT activity"
"Absence seizures may be differentiated from inattentive staring spells by the presence of automatisms"
"Bilateral acoustic neuromas are associated with neurofibromatosis type 2::condition"
"What type of pleural effusion, transudative or exudative, is commonly seen with pneumonia (e.g. parapneumonic effusion)? Exudative"
"Anisocytosis = variation in RBC size::characteristic"
"Mild eyelid swelling with watery, serosanguinous, or mucopurulent eye discharge in a 5-14 day newborn is suggestive of Chlamydial conjunctivitis::diagnosis"
"Infant with itchy, scaly, erythematous lesions on the face, scalp, trunk, and extensor surfaces = atopic dermatitis (eczema)::diagnosis"
"Eczema in infant = extensor::flexor/extensor surfaces Eczema in children/adults = flexor::flexor/extensor surfaces"
"APGAR scores are not::are/are not predictive of future outcome, and should not::should/should not guide therapy"
"What complication of shoulder dystocia manifests as a \Waiter's tip\\" with an impaired biceps/moro reflex in a newborn? Erb-Duchenne palsy D/t upper trunk injury involving C5 and C6\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a macrosomic, vacuum-delivered newborn with crepitus over the clavicle and asymmetric Moro reflex? Clavicular fracture (secondary to shoulder dystocia)"
"What is the next step in management for a macrosomic newborn with a clavicular fracture secondary to shoulder dystocia? Reassurance / pin sleeve → chest"
"Caput succendaneum::Caput succendaneum/cephalohematoma = epi-periosteal and crosses suture lines Cephalohematoma::Caput succendaneum/cephalohematoma = subperiosteal and does not cross suture lines"
"Nevus simplex (salmon patch)::Diagnosis?"
"Found in a newborn (day 1) Milia::Diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with the lesion below? Superficial infantile (strawberry) hemangioma"
"Neonatal acne::Diagnosis - papulopustular rash seen in babies in first few weeks of life."
"Child with orange plaque on scalp (hairless) or face is a(n) nevus sebaceous::condition with removal::next step"
"What is the recommended treatment for seborrheic dermatitis in infants? Emollients and nonmedicated shampoos"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a 4-month old boy who presents with seizures? He was born at home. Physical exam shows light hair and blue eyes. His urine is noticable for a \musty odor\\". Phenylketonuria (PKU)\""
"What is the treatment for PKU? Decrease phenylalanine in diet and increase tyrosine content"
"Classic galactosemia is characterized by the absence of the Gal-1-P uridyltransferase enzyme"
"Bilateral cataracts in infant, failure to thrive, hypoglycemia, hepatosplenomegaly/jaundice. Classical galactosemia (galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase deficiency)::Diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 5-day-old baby that presents with unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia and signs of dehydration after exclusively breastfeeding? Breastfeeding failure jaundice"
"Breast feeding::milk/feeding jaundice = ↓ feed volume → reabsorption of bilirubin Breast milk::milk/feeding jaundice = enyzmes in milk inhibit 2,3 UDP-GT"
"Treatment of breast milk jaundice is supplement with formula feeds Treatment of breast feeding jaundice is increase feeding frequency"
"Pathological jaundice seen in newborns < 24 hours old"
"Pathologic jaundice = Coombs::next best test"
"Newborn with unconjugated bilirubin and high Hgb = transfusion::cause"
"Congenital absence of UDP-glucuronosyltransferase is most likely Crigler-Najjar syndrome, type I::condition"
"Gilbert syndrome is due to mildly low UDP-glucuronyl transferase activity leading to isolated increase in unconjugated bilirubin"
"Sepsis, galactosemia, hypothyroidism, choledochal cyst, and CF can all cause direct::indirect/direct hyperbilirubinemia"
"Rotor syndrome and Dubin-Johnson syndrome are characterized by elevated levels of conjugated::conjugated/unconjugated bilirubin"
"Unconjugated::Conjugated/Unconjugated bilirubin causes kernicterus"
"Treatment of a neonate with physiologic/unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia is phototherapy (blue light) Treatment of a neonate with severe physiologic/unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia is exchange perfusion"
"Scaphoid abdomen in a dyspneic baby and bowel sounds heard over the lungs is suggestive of congenital diaphgramatic hernia::diagnosis"
"What is postnatal treatment for congenital diaphragmatic hernia? (3) Intubation and mechanical ventilation Gastric decompression Surgical repair (after 3-4 days) Surfactant administration for preemies"
"Esophageal atresia with TEF typically presents with drooling, choking, and vomiting with the first feeding"
"Neonate with an NG tube coiling in the esophagus = TE fistula"
"What is diagnosis and treatment of TE fistula? What do you need to look out for? Feeding tube coiling; Surgery; Look for VACTERL anaomalies"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a generally healthy newborn that presents with cyanosis that worsens with feeding and is relieved with crying despite a normal cardiac and respiratory exam? Choanal atresia"
"Choanal atresia is associated with CHARGE syndrome: Coloboma Heart defects Atresia choanae (choanal atresia) Retardation of growth Genital abnormalities Ear abnormalities::What does the mnemonic stand for?"
"The lecithin (phosphatidylcholine):sphingomyelin ratio in amniotic fluid is used to screen for lung maturity (e.g. RDS)"
"Treatment of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome includes positive pressure ventilation +/- intubation"
"Term neonate delivered via C-section with respiratory distress; X-ray shows perihilar linear streaking is suggestive of TTN::diagnosis"
"Post-term neonate with green amniotic fluid during birth followed by respiratory distress is suggestive of meconium aspiration syndrome::diagnosis with intubation/suction::next step"
"Gastroschisis::Omphalocele/Gastroschisis is a right of midline defect without a membrane and is more susceptible to twisting and infection"
"Is gastroschisis or omphalocele associated with more health concerns? Which one most commonly? Omphalocele; Beckwith Wiedemann"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with macrosomia, macroglossia, umbilical hernia, hemihyperplasia, and hypoglycemia? Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn that presents with an enlarged tongue, umbilical hernia, and jaundice with high TSH and low free T4? Congenital hypothyroidism"
"Do umbilical hernias typically require surgical intervention? No (most close spontaneously before age 5)"
"Prior to pyloromyotomy, patients with pyloric stenosis should receive IV hydration and electrolytes to decrease the risk of post-operative apnea"
"Double bubble sign, no distal air and Down's syndrome is suggestive of duodenal atresia::annular pancreas/duodenal atresia Double bubble sign, no distal air and NO Down's syndrome is suggestive of annular pancreas::annular pancreas/duodenal atresia"
"Midgut volvulus is a surgical emergency that classically presents in a neonate with congenital malrotation, manifesting as bilious vomiting and abdominal distention."
"What is the next step in management for a newborn with bilious emesis and dilated loops of bowel on X-ray? Contrast enema"
"What cause of bilious vomiting is characterized by meconium obstructing the rectosigmoid colon with a transition zone visualized on X-ray? Hirschsprung disease"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a preterm newborn that presents with feeding intolerance, abdominal distention, bloody stools, lethargy, and the X-ray below? Necrotizing enterocolitis"
"Intussusception is a GI disorder that presents with an ill-defined, \sausage shaped\\" mass in the RUQ\""
"What is the next step in management for a stable child with suspected intussusception and a \target sign\\" on ultrasound? Ultrasound-guided air contrast enema\""
"Do patients with cryptorchidism repaired before 1 year of age (e.g. orchiopexy) have an increased risk of testicular cancer? Yes"
"Do you circumcise pts with either hypospadias or epispadias? No"
"Hypospadias::Condition is an abnormal urethral opening on ventral penis Epispadias::Condition is an abnormal urethral opening on dorsal penis"
"17-hydroxyprogesterone::Compound? = elevated in 21-hydroxylase deficiency (the most common CAH)"
"Treatment of congenital adrenal hyperplasia is low dose exogenous corticosteroids (replacement therapy)"
"What is the most common cause of urinary tract obstruction in newborn boys? Posterior urethral valves"
"Why is gestational diabetes a risk factor for neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS)? Increased insulin prevents surfactant synthesis and lung maturation by interfering with cortisol"
"Maternal gestational diabetes → ↑ risk of neonatal polycythemia::hematological disorder"
"Baby < 28 days and fever >100.4 = sepsis until proven otherwise"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an intrapartum patient that presents after >18 hours of membrane rupture and prolonged labor with fever and tachycardia? Fetal heart tracing demonstrates fetal tachycardia. Chorioamnionitis (intra-amniotic infection)"
"Most common bugs for neonatal sepsis? (3) GBS, E. coli, Listeria"
"Snuffles and Hutchinson (notched) teeth = congenital syphilis"
"Newborn with cataracts, failed hearing test, and continuous heart murmur: Congenital Rubella::Diagnosis?"
"Which congenital infection is associated with limb hypoplasia, cataracts, and skin scars? Varicella zoster"
"Gonococcal conjunctivitis = days 2-5 and purulent exudate Chlamydia conjunctivitis = days 5-14 and mucoid/watery discharge"
"What is the treatment/administration route of Chlamydial conjunctivitis? Oral erythromycin"
"Which major autosomal trisomy is associated with hypothyroidism? Down syndrome (Trisomy 21)"
"Down syndrome = risk of ALL::tumor after age 5"
"Rapid Diagnosis Omphalocele, rocker-bottom feet/hammer toe, microcephaly, clenched hand: Edwards (Trisomy 18)"
"What chromosomal abnormality is associated with holoprosencephaly/microcephaly, intellectual disability, cleft lip/palate, and small eyes? Trisomy 13 (Patau syndrome)"
"What kidney abnormality is associated with Turner syndrome? Horseshoe kidney"
"What branchial arch abnormality is characterized by cleft palate, airway obstruction, micrognathia, and glossoptosis? Pierre Robin sequence"
"What genetic pathology is characterized by hypotonia, insatiable appetite → obesity, intellectual disability, and hypogonadism? Prader-Willi syndrome"
"What genetic pathology is characterized by inappropriate laughter, seizures, ataxia, and severe intellectual disability? Angelman syndrome (\happy puppet syndrome\\")\""
"- Male child with recurrent sinopulmonary (otitis media, pneumonia) and GI infections after 6 months - No mature B cells → absence of lymphoid tissue and immunoglobuins Bruton disease (X-linked agammaglobulinemia); IVIg replacement::Diagnosis and treatment?"
"Older child/teenager with recurrent sinopulmonary infections with low levels of all immunoglobulins is suggestive of CVID::diagnosis"
"CVID = ↑ risk of lymphoma::cancer"
"Selective IgA deficiency is associated with anaphylaxis during blood transfusions"
"The features of a chromosome 22q11 microdeletion (DiGeorge Syndrome) may be remembered with the mnemonic \CATCH 22\\": C: Cleft palate A: Abnormal facies T: Thymic (and parathyroid) aplasia C: Conotruncal abnormalities (truncus arteriosus"
"Infant with no thymus or tonsils = SCID::immunodeficiency"
"Chronic granulomatous disease is characterized by recurrent infection and granuloma formation with catalase-positive organisms"
"Newborns: Double weight by 6 months Triple weight by 1 year ↑ 50% length by 1 year"
"A postpartum mother with hepatitis infection wants to know if she is able to breastfeed? Yes; Hep B and C are not contraindicated"
"What is the next step in management for a healthy 12-year-old male that presents with delayed growth spurt, delayed puberty, and delayed bone age? Reassurance and follow-up"
"Roll over and laugh and smile = 3 months::age"
"At what age will a child be able to: Pull (to sit up) Pincer grasp (thumb and first finger) Papa/Mama Play 9 months"
"1/2 speech comprehensible at 2 years"
"Fecal continence = 4 years old::age Urinary continence = 5 years old::age"
"Mother is Hep B (+) = give Hep B vaccine and HepB IVIg::what is given? Mother is Hep B (unknown) = give Hep B vaccine and check HBsAg::what is given?"
"At which age does annual influenza vaccination become a recommendation? > 6 months"
"MMR and varicella vaccines first due at 1 year::age"
"Systolic, < 2/6, soft, vibratory and musical, heard best @ lower mid-sternum: Still's murmur::Diagnosis?"
"Diastolic::Diastolic/Systolic murmurs are always pathologic"
"Congenital cardiac disease and maternal diabetes (before pregnancy) = Transposition of the great vessels (TGV)"
"What is the treatment of transposition of the great vessels (TGV)? Prostaglandins (to maintain the PDA) Surgery::2"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn that presents with cyanosis, a single loud S2 on auscultation (no murmur), and a narrow mediastinum on X-ray? Transposition of the great vessels"
"Tetralogy of Fallot::Congenital heart disease = systolic ejection murmur at left upper sternal border and single S2"
"Lithium exposure in utero::Condition has risk of Ebstein anomaly"
"Ebstein anomaly = tricuspid regurgitation::murmur"
"What is the treatment for tricuspid atresia? Prostaglandin E1; surgery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a cyanotic newborn with truncus arteriosus and an absent thymic shadow on X-ray? DiGeorge syndrome"
"Louder VSD = better::worse/better prognosis"
"Fixed splitting of S2 is heard in a(n) ASD::condition"
"The murmur and symptoms of HOCM::murmur are the same as aortic stenosis"
"↑ Preload = ↓::↑/↓ intensity of HOCM murmur"
"What is the treatment for HOCM? Avoiding dehydration (preserving preload) BBs (increased diastolic time to maximize preload)::2"
"The Jones criteria for rheumatic fever are: Joints (arthritis)::J ♥ carditis::O Nodules (subcutaneous)::N Erythema marginatum::E Syndenham chorea::S"
"Mitral valve is most often affected in rheumatic fever"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with pancreatic insufficiency, failure to thrive, and recurrent respiratory infections? Cystic Fibrosis"
"Cystic fibrosis = autosomal recessive::inheritance pattern CFTR defect, commonly seen in the Caucasian population"
"Cystic fibrosis and young child = Staph aureus::pathogen Cystic fibrosis and adult = Pseudomonas::pathogen"
"Treatment of Asthma Intermittent = SABA Mild persistent = SABA + ICS Moderate persistent = SABA + ICS + LABA Severe flare = SABA + ICS + LABA + oral corticosteroids *Add on leukotriene antagonist (montelukast) at any time"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with severe asthma exacerbation with an elevated PaCO2? Endotracheal intubation"
"Roseola (HHV6)::Condition includes a high fever followed by a diffuse macular rash on trunk/arms"
"\Slapped-cheek\\" rash in children = parvovirus (B19)::virus\""
"Parvovirus (B19)::Virus can cause an aplastic crisis in patients with hemoglobinopathies"
"Preceding sore throat → sandpaper skin, strawberry tongue, circumoral pallor and red rash on palms/soles that desquamates (peels off) is suggestive of scarlet fever::diagnosis"
"Scarlet fever is managed with penicillin::Treatment"
"Coxsackie A is a virus that causes hand-foot-and-mouth disease"
"What is recommended treatment for pregnant women and children < 8 years old with early localized Lyme disease? Oral amoxicillin"
"Rash starting on palms/soles of feet moving towards trunk (centripetal spread) is suggestive of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF)::condition"
"Treatment of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is doxycycline"
"What is the recommended treatment for lice or scabies? (2) Topical permethrin & oral ivermectin"
"Which infectious skin disorder is a superficial bacterial skin infection characterized by painful, non-itchy pustules and honey-colored crusting? Impetigo"
"What is the next step in management for an infant with suspected bacterial meningitis based on history and physical exam? Lumbar puncture followed by IV antibiotics"
"Close contacts of a patient with meningitis due to H. flu should be treated with prophylactic rifampin::drug"
"Pneumatic insufflation → tense, immobile membrane = otitis media::diagnosis?"
"What is the first-line treatment for acute otitis media? Oral amoxicillin"
"Otitis externa is most commonly caused by infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"What is the recommended pharmacotherapy for otitis externa? Topical antibiotics (e.g. fluoroquinolones)"
"Otitis externa maligna = Pseudomonas::infection"
"What is the next step in management for a child that presents with fever, pharyngitis with tonsillar exudates, and tender anterior cervical lymphadenopathy? Rapid streptococcal antigen testing"
"What is the recommended treatment for children with group A Streptococcus pharyngitis? Oral penicillin or amoxicillin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with an inability to extend the neck due to neck stiffness with a widened prevertebral space on X-ray after having fever and sore throat for one week? Retropharyngeal abscess"
"What head and neck infection is characterized by trismus, muffled voice, and deviation of the uvula on physical exam? Peritonsillar abscess (quinsy)"
"GAS Pharyngitis will present with anterior::anterior/posterior chain lymphadenopathy, while EBV will have posterior::anterior/posterior chain lymphadenopathy"
"Epstein-Barr Virus is associated with fever,  posterior::anterior/posterior cervical::location lymphadenopathy, pharyngitis, and hepatosplenomegaly"
"Aminopenicillins can cause rash if given in the setting of what viral illness? EBV infectious mononucleosis"
"EBV::CMV/EBV = atypical lymphocytes and positive monospot test"
"Because of splenomegaly, patients with mononucleosis (EBV) are advised to avoid contact sports (e.g. football) for danger of splenic rupture"
"Croup \Steeple Sign\\" (Parainfluenza)\""
"3 year old recent immigrant acutely ill; sitting up and leaning forward, drooling, toxic appearing; diagnosis and next step? Epiglottitis → prepare for intubation in the OR"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent URI and a persistent productive cough without fever or significant CXR findings? Acute bronchitis"
"Infant pneumonia with \staccato cough\\" = chlamydia trachomatis (D-K)::bacteria\""
"Pneumonia may present with decreased breath sounds and dullness to percussion"
"Consolidation (lobar pneumonia, pulmonary edema) may present with late inspiratory crackles"
"Child <2 years old with recent viral URI and wheezing/dyspnea in the winter months is suggestive of bronchiolitis::diagnosis"
"What is the treatment for bronchiolitis? Supportive (oxygen, IVF)"
"- Catarrhal: vague non-specific infectious → rhinorrhea and low-grade fever - Paroxysmal: coughing spells interspersed with inspiratory \whoop\\" - Resolution Pertussis::Diagnosis?\""
"What is the first-line treatment for Bordatella pertussis infection? Macrolides"
"Pyelonephritis = fever present::present/not present Cystitis = fever not present::present/not present"
"In < 2 yo children with a febrile UTI, what is the next best step in evaluating for anatomic abnormalities? Renal and bladder US"
"What is the test of choice for definitive diagnosis of vesicoureteral reflux? Voiding cystourethrogram"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with leg-length discrepancy and asymmetric inguinal skin folds? Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH)"
"Developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH) is managed with Harness::treatment"
"6 yo with insidious onset of hip/knee pain and an antalgic gait is suggestive of Legg-Calvé-Perthe disease::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with hip pain and limp several days after a viral URI with normal physical exam, laboratory studies, and X-ray? Transient synovitis"
"Sudden onset of hip or knee pain in an obese teenager/undergoing a growth spurt is suggestive of slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE)::diagnosis"
"Teenage athletes with progressive knee pain and tibial tubercle tenderness/swelling is suggestive of Osgood-Schlatter::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with 2 months of daily fever, pink macular rash, and knee/hip pain that is worse in the morning? Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (aka junvenile RA)"
"What is the mnemonic for the criteria for Kawasaki disease? Conjunctival injection Rash Adenopathy (cervical) Strawberry tongue Hand-foot changes fever"
"Patients with Kawasaki disease may develop coronary artery aneurysms, which can rupture; therefore, get a(n) echo::diagnostic test"
"\Onion skin\\" appearance of long bone periosteum with \\"moth-eaten\\" appearance is suggestive of Ewing sarcoma::bone condition\""
"Codman triangle and \sunburst\\" pattern is seen in osteosarcoma::bone condition\""
"Acute leukemia may present acutely with nonspecific symptoms (e.g. bone pain) and anemia, thrombocytopenia, and/or neutropenia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African American infant that presents with symmetric swelling/tenderness of the bilateral hands and feet? Dactylitis (secondary to sickle cell disease)"
"What are the most common causes of osteomyelitis in children with sickle cell disease? (2) Staphylococcus aureus > Salmonella"
"Nuclear remnants within RBCs (left) = asplenia (Howell-Jolly bodies) Precipitation of ribosomal ribonucleic acid within RBC cytoplasm (right) = lead poisoning::diagnosis?"
"Sickle cell disease splenic sequesteration crisis = ↑ reticulocyte count Sickle cell disease aplastic crisis = ↓ reticulocyte count"
"Hemolysis (sickle cell / thalassemia) = ↑ risk of black pigment stones::gallstones"
"Sickle cell and priapism, acute chest, or stroke → exchange transfusion::treatment"
"Sickle cell and chronic hemolysis → folate deficiency = ↓ reticulocyte count and ↑ MCV"
"Hydroxyurea is useful in the treatment of sickle cell anemia because it increases levels of HbF to > 15%."
"Rapid Diagnosis Triphalangeal thumb, macrocytic anemia, reticulocytopenia, normal platelets and WBC counts: Diamond-Blackfan anemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with short stature, hypoplastic thumbs, abnormal skin pigmentation and aplastic, macrocytic anemia? Fanconi anemia"
"\Bluish line on gingiva\\" (Burton Line)"
"What is the recommended management for children with moderate lead poisoning (45 - 69 mcg/dL on venous blood testing)? DMSA (succimer)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with scattered petechiae with isolated thrombocytopenia and enlarged platelets following a viral infection? Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)"
"Most common cause of heavy, regular menses in adolescents = von Willebrand disease"
"von Willebrand disease presents with normal platelet count + increased bleeding time and increased/equivocal PTT"
"What hematologic pathology is characterized by thrombocytopenia, MAHA with schistocytes, and acute renal failure following a diarrheal illness? Hemolytic uremic syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with abdominal pain, arthralgias, and palpable purpura on the lower extremities? Henoch-Schonlein purpura"
"Medulloblastoma is a posterior fossa tumor of childhood that typically arises from the cerebellar vermis::location and causes hydrocephalus due to blockage of the 4th ventricle"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with bitemporal hemianopsia and diabetes insipidus with calcified pituitary mass on imaging? Craniopharyngioma"
"WAGR syndrome is a syndrome that involves Wilms tumor (nephroblastoma), aniridia, genitourinary abnormalities and mental retardation"
"What is the most common site of metastatic spread of a Wilms tumor? Lungs"
"Opsoclonus-myoclonus ataxia (OMA) is associated with neuroblastoma"
"↑ VMA and ↑ HVA in infant is suggestive of neuroblastoma::condition"
"TdT (+) and CD10 (+) blasts is suggestive of B-ALL::condition"
"Giant B cells with bilobed nuclei with prominent inclusions (\owl's eye\\") Reed-Sternberg cells - Hodgkin lymphoma\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with hematuria a few days after an upper respiratory infection with normal complement levels? IgA nephropathy"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN) is generally preceded by either group A strep pharyngitis AND/OR GAS skin infections (impetigo)"
"ASO (anti-streptolysin O) antibodies = post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis::glomerular disease"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young male that presents with recurrent hematuria and bilateral sensorineural deafness? Alport syndrome"
"How is nephrolithiasis managed? Stone < 5 mm: hydration and pain control"
"What is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome in preadolescent children (< 10 years old)? Minimal change disease"
"What is the next step in management for a child with suspected minimal change disease? Corticosteroids"
"Nephrotic syndrome may result in a(n) hyper-coagulable state"
"Chiari II malformation is often associated with lumbosacral meningomyelocele"
"Dandy-Walker malformation presents as a massively dilated 4th ventricle and an absent cerebellum"
"Simple febrile seizures → acetaminophen::symptomatic treatment"
"< 6 month old with bilateral jerking of head/extremities without fever and interictal EEG showing hypsarrhythmia is suggestive of West syndrome (infantile spasm)::diagnosis"
"What is the treatment for infantile spasm (West syndrome)? ACTH (cosyntropin)"
"Staggering gait and Kyphoscoliosis Pes cavus HCM and Diabetes = Friedreich ataxia"
"Which lysosomal storage disease is caused by deficiency of hexosaminidase A? Tay-Sachs disease"
"Floppy baby and tongue fasciculations is characteristic of Werdnig-Hoffman disease (spinal muscular atrophy)::condition"
"Which genetic cause of weakness and sensory deficits is associated with pes cavus (a foot with a high arch)? Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease"
"A sudden loss of consciousness, usually without warning and lasting for a few seconds, due to an abnormal heart rhythm (especially complete atrioventricular block) is suggestive of Adam-Stokes attacks::diagnosis"
"Shigellosis can cause a high fever, which can lead to febrile seizures::neurological complication"
"DiGeorge syndrome::Condition involves the failed development of the thymus resulting in ↓↓ T cell maturation"
"Prominent J waves on ECG are typically indicative of hypothermia"
"What is the reservoir for Salmonella enteritidis? Undercooked chicken"
"Hürthle cell metaplasia and lymphoid aggregates with germinal centers in thyroid is seen in Hashimoto thyroiditis::condition"
"Developmental dysplasia of the hip is caused by an insufficiently deep acetabulum (hip socket)::structure → femur constantly pops out"
"What is shown here? Humeral fracture"
"Anorexia can lead to secondary osteoporosis::MSK"
"What is the recommended treatment for an infant born to a mother with an HIV viral load < 1000 copies/mL? Zidovudine within 12 hours of birth for > 6 weeks"
"Malaria is characterized by flu-like symptoms (fever and headache), anemia::hematologic symptom and splenomegaly::enlargement of what organ"
"Physiologic gynecomastia may occur in newborn, pubertal, and elderly males"
"5/9 depressive SIGECAPS lasting > 2 weeks is suggestive of major depressive disorder::condition"
"Cystic fibrosis may present with nasal polyps and nail clubbing"
"5-day history of fever, new systolic murmur and splenomegaly is suggestive of infective endocarditis::diagnosis"
"Leukocoria (white reflex) and strabismus is suggestive of retinoblastoma::diagnosis"
"Neurogenic tumors = posterior mediastinum Thymomas = anterior mediastinum"
"Distended abdomen, bilious vomiting and blood in the stool is suggestive of midgut volvulus::diagnosis"
"Bowing of the legs (genu varum) is considered a normal variation in children up to 2 years old"
"Clinical Presentation Male child, recurrent infections after 6 months, no mature B cells Bruton disease (X-linked agammaglobulinemia)::Disease?"
"Patient presents with skin hyperpigmentation, hypotension, and fatigue Primary adrenocortical insufficiency (Addison)"
"Croup may present with inspiratory stridor due to subglottic::location narrowing"
"Testicular torsion commonly presents in adolescents with sudden testicular pain, swollen testicle, and absent cremasteric reflex"
"What is the best test to differentiate asthma from COPD? Spirometry before and after an inhaled bronchodilator"
"Precocious puberty (girls) = earlier than 8 yo::age Precocious puberty (boys) = earlier than 9 yo::age"
"What hepatobiliary complication is associated with hereditary spherocytosis? Pigment gallstones (+/- acute cholecystitis)"
"What is the next step in management of caustic ingestion, after airway, breathing, and circulation have been assessed? Decontamination (e.g. remove contaminated clothing, irrigate exposed skin)"
"Blanchable::Blanchable/Non-Blanchable lesions are due to vascular dilatation Non-blanchable lesions are due to the presence of red blood cells outside of blood vessels (extravasation)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young child that presents with failure to thrive and easy fatigability with a grade II holosystolic murmur best heard over the left sternal border with a diastolic rumble over the cardiac apex? There is also a loud P2. Large ventricular septal defect (VSD)"
"Painless genital ulcer (chancre) is seen in primary syphilis::condition"
"Bronchopulmonary dysplasia → hypertension"
"What childhood malignancy typically manifests as a smooth, non-tender abdominal mass that does not cross the midline and is associated with hematuria/HTN?  Wilms tumor (nephroblastoma)"
"Fever and rash 1-3 weeks after administration of MMR vaccine = mild form of disease::cause"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a well-appearing infant that presents with regurgitation after feeding, as well as eczema and painless, bloody stools? Milk protein allergy"
"Total bilirubin > 20 mg/dL in 1-day-old baby is managed with exchange transfusion::next step"
"Hypoglycemia can be precipitated by exercise in patients with insulin-treated diabetes -- why? Exogenous insulin continues to suck glucose into cells on top of exercising skeletal muscles"
"Fever, joint pain/swelling, CNS/seizure and nephritis is suggestive of SLE::diagnosis"
"Strenuous activity on a hot day, nausea/vomiting, headache and temperature increased but not greater than 40°C (104 F) is suggestive of heat exhaustion::diagnosis"
"Osteomyelitis::Osteomyelitis/Septic arthritis = bacteremia that seeds the bone (esp. metaphysis in children) Septic arthritis::Osteomyelitis/Septic arthritis = infection of the joint"
"Chronic bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain and extraintestinal symptoms (e.g. uveitis, arthritis) is suggestive of UC::diagnosis"
"How do serum levels of K+ typically change in patients with diabetic ketoacidosis? Normal or increased"
"Infant with jaundice (direct::indirect/direct hyperbilirubinemia), hepatomegaly and failure to thrive and positive urine reducing substance is suggestive of galactosemia::diagnosis"
"DKA is managed with IV fluids (0.9% NS)::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with hematuria a few days after an upper respiratory infection with normal complement levels? IgA nephropathy (synpharyngitic glomerulonephritis)"
"Painful rash that follows a dermatomal distribution (described as dew drop like vesicles on an erythematous base) Herpes Zoster (shingles)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with preexisting lung disease (e.g. cystic fibrosis; COPD) who presents with JVD, hepatomegaly, and pitting edema? Cor pulmonale"
"What is the treatment for neonatal hyperbilirubinemia when phototherapy fails? Exchange transfusions"
"Neonate with subperiosteal hematoma that is limited to the cranial suture lines Cephalohematoma::diagnosis"
"The foul-smelling diarrhea seen in a(n) Giardia infection is due to steatorrhea* (fatty diarrhea)"
"Pediatric vaginal discharge is usually foreign body::condition"
"Anaphylatic shock and hypotension = IM epi and IVF bolus::for volume replacement"
"Cromolyn sodium is an asthma therapeutic that inhibits mast cell degranulation (↓ histamine release)"
"How do you treat Methemoglobinemia?  Methylene blue Vitamin C"
"Adenosine is the first line agent for acute treatment of supraventricular arrhythmias"
"Triamcinolone = steroid::class of drug"
"Acrocyanosis is normal::abnormal/normal is newborns up to 2 days old"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with respiratory distress, crackles on examination, hypoxemia, and diffuse, bilateral alveolar infiltrates not due to CHF/fluid overload? Acute respiratory distress syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with unilateral hearing loss with a dull, hypomobile tympanic membrane with air-fluid level behind the TM on otoscopic exam? Serous otitis media (otitis media with effusion)"
"Can C. difficile cause occult blood in the stool? yes"
"Kasabach-Merrit syndrome is a combination of a vascular tumor (hemangioma) and consumptive thrombocytopenia (leading to petechiae and bruises)"
"Which nerve injury presents with wrist drop? Radial nerve injury"
"What microorganism is most commonly involved in the pathogenesis of tinea capitis? Trichophyton tonsurans"
"Persistent nonproductive cough and consolidation in the right middle lobe is suggestive of right middle lobe syndrome::diagnosis"
"Obesity, hirsutism, acne and menstrual irregularity is suggestive of PCOS::diagnosis Above and moonlike facies, HTN, muscle wasting, abdominal striae is suggestive of Cushing syndrome::diagnosis"
"Which type of Neonatal Jaundice has total bilirubin increases < 5 mg/dL/day and peaks < 15 mg/dL? Physiological"
"If a patient with septic shock fails to respond to IV fluids, then vasopressors (e.g. dopamine) should be started to improve perfusion"
"Turner syndrome can have melanocytic nevi::skin manifestation"
"Drooling and ulcer formation in a child = drain cleaner (caustic agent)::ingestion of what?"
"Wilms tumor = abdominal ultrasound::imaging"
"IgA Nephropathy = hematuria::hematuria/no hematuria Minimal Change Disease = no hematuria::hematuria/no hematuria"
"Fundoplication is a procedure used to treat severe gastroesophageal reflux (GERD)"
"Shaken baby syndrome is an example of acceleration-deceleration head injury"
"Are calcifications common in Wilms tumor or neuroblastoma? Neuroblastoma"
"Running and kicking a ball = 18 months::age"
"Child with bone pain, non-tender lymphadenopathy, and pancytopenia is suggestive of acute lymphoblastic leukemia::diagnosis"
"Anaphylaxis refractory to 1 dose of IM epi without respiratory failure signs is managed with repeat IM epi::next step"
"Fanconi anemia = pancytopenia::pure red cell aplasia/pancytopenia Diamond Blackfan = pure red cell aplasia (macrocytic)::pure red cell aplasia/pancytopenia"
"Newborns usually have right-axis deviation"
"Laryngomalacia improves in the prone::supine/prone position"
"≥ 30% skin blistering and erosion with mucous membrane involvement (usually associated with adverse drug reactions) is characteristic of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN)::condition"
"The hallmark of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy::diagnosis is myoclonic jerks when awakening from sleep, and treatment is valproic acid"
"Which type of syncope is often preceded by nausea, bradycardia, and/or a feeling of warmth throughout the body? Neurocardiogenic (vasovagal) syncope"
"Levonorgestrel (Plan B) = progestin (emergency contraception)::drug class"
"Cough, rhinorrhea, conjunctivitis, oral ulcers are symptoms of viral::viral/bacterial pharyngitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with primary amenorrhea and the following physical exam: normal ovaries, pubic hair, breast development, and absent uterus/upper vagina? Müllerian agenesis"
"5α-reductase deficiency::Condition results in a 46 XY with: - Male internal genitalia - Ambiguous external genitalia (virilization at puberty)"
"How many doses of varicella zoster are given? 2 doses (1 and 4 yo)"
"Herpangina is found on the posterior::anterior/posterior pharynx and is caused by Coxsackie A virus::cause"
"Clusters of vesicles on anterior mucosa / lips is suggestive of herpetic gingivostomatitis::diagnosis"
"Which azole is used to treat localized Tinea infections (except tinea capitis)? Topical -azoles (clotrimazole and miconazole)"
"Peritonsillar Abscess is managed with Drainage and IV antibiotics::treatment"
"Young patient with hypertensive emergency (blood pressure 185/125 mm Hg, papilledema, severe headache, confusion, and vomiting) and an abdominal bruit on examination that is best heard at the right costovertebral angle is suggestive of fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD)::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn with microcephaly, hirsutism, phalanx/nail hypoplasia, and a cleft palate? Fetal hydantoin syndrome"
"Epididymitis presents with unilateral testicular pain, dysuria, fever/chills, and a scrotal mass; and is caused by E. coli in old people and STDs in young dudes"
"What is the likely etiology of hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia in a patient that develops symptoms 4 weeks after a severe motor vehicle accident left the patient a quadriplegic? Immobilization"
"Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome = hypoglycemia"
"B-cell deficiencies = recurrent bacterial infections T-cell deficiencies produce fungal and viral infections"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent with recurrent kidney stones, hexagonal crystals on urinalysis, and a (+) urinary cyanide nitroprusside test? Cystinuria"
"rhomboid crystals = uric acid stones::kidney stones"
"Cystine kidney stones are characterized by urine crystals that are hexagonal in shape"
"What ovarian tumor is associated with estrogen secretion? Granulosa cell tumor"
"CLASSIC PRESENTATIONS Clinical Presentation: \Elastic skin"
"Streptococcus pneumoniae is the most common cause of secondary pneumonia (e.g. post-flu)"
"Patient presents with infantile hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, hypotonia, and exercise intolerance Pompe disease (glycogen storage type II)"
"The treatment for chickenpox includes topical ointments for pruritis::for normal patients and acyclovir if immunosuppressed."
"Pinealoma (CNS tumor) may cause precocious puberty in males due to β-hCG production"
"Granulomatosis Infantiseptica = complication of Listeria monocytogenes seen in neonates with disseminated abscesses/granulomas (liver, lungs)"
"Treatment of TTN is conservative (e.g. oxygen) Treatment of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome is positive pressure ventilation (PPV)"
"4 day old baby with total bilirubin level 21 → phototherapy::next step"
"Rectal suction biopsy is the gold standard for diagnosing Hirschsprung's disease"
"Neonatal sepsis = ampicillin/gentamicin::dual blend or cefotaxime +/- vancomycin::if meningitis is suspected"
"What is the recommended treatment for congenital toxoplasmosis? (3) Pyrimethamine Sulfadiazine Folate"
"What is the recommended treatment for gonococcal conjunctivitis? Single dose of IM 3rd-gen cephalosporin (e.g. ceftriaxone)"
"Down syndrome::Trisomy? = ↑ risk of Alzheimer's"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is associated with Turner syndrome? Osteoporosis"
"Continuous murmur that disappears with flexion of head or in supine position = venous hum::murmur"
"Iron deficiency anemia = high::normal/high RDW Thalassemia = normal::normal/high RDW"
"Progressive adrenal insufficiency and neurological deficits is suggestive of adrenoleukodystrophy::condition"
"Tay-Sachs disease may be differentiated from Niemann-Pick disease by presence of hyperreflexia::hyporeflexia/hyperreflexia and the absence::presence/abscence of hepatosplenomegaly"
"Psychosis is a general term used to describe a distorted perception of reality"
"Delusions are fixed, false beliefs that remain despite evidence to the contrary and cannot be accounted for by the cultural background of the individual"
"“The neighbors are spying on me by reading my mail.” = non-bizarre::bizarre/non-bizarre delusion"
"Mistaking a shadow for a cat = illusion::perceptual disturbance"
"Hallucination: sensory perception without an actual external stimulus"
"Auditory hallucinations that directly tell the patient to perform certain acts are called command hallucinations"
"Hallucinations, delusions, bizarre behavior, disorganized speech describe what category of symptoms of schizophrenia? Positive symptoms"
"Flat or blunted affect, anhedonia, apathy, alogia, and lack of interest in socialization describe what category of symptoms of schizophrenia? Negative symptoms"
"What is the dopamine hypothesis of the etiology of schizophrenia? Increased DA activity and receptors in some brain regions yield positive symptoms Decreased DA activity and receptors in other regions yield negative symptoms"
"Atypical antipsychotics may cause metabolic syndrome Typical antipsychotics may cause extrapyramidal symptoms, NMS and tardive dyskinesia"
"Patient being treated for hallucinations admitted with fever and confusion. Exam shows diffuse muscle resistance to motion, diaphoresis, tachypnea, dry mucous membranes. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (due to antipsychotics)"
"Belief that a (famous) person loves you = erotomanic delusion::delusion"
"Belief in inflated worth/value/power (relationship with deity/famous person) = grandiose delusion::delusion"
"First generation (typical) antipsychotics treat (+) symptoms of schizophrenia Second generation (atypical) antipsychotics treat (+) and (-) symptoms of schizophrenia"
""
"Mild depressive symptoms and hypomanic symptoms lasting ≥ 2 years::duration is characteristic of cyclothymic disorder::condition"
"Symptoms of anxiety can mimic a(n) myocardial infarction::disease process"
"Panic attacks are a type of fear response involving an abrupt surge of intense anxiety which may be triggered or occur spontaneously."
"Chronic anxiety =  GAD::GAD/Panic disorder Acute anxiety = Panic disorder::GAD/Panic disorder"
"Exaggerated fear of > 2 situations due to difficulty escaping (open/closed/crowded places) lasting > 6 months is characteristic of agoraphobia::condition"
"A(n) phobia is defined as an exagerrated, irrational fear that leads to endurance of the anxiety and/or avoidance of the feared object or situation"
"Performance anxiety / public speaking = CBT and  β-blockers::first line drug"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that is verbal and talkative at home but refuses to speak in specific social settings (e.g. school)? Selective mutism"
"At what age does an infant typically develop separation anxiety? 12 months"
"Separation anxiety disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by overwhelming fear of separation from home or an attachment figure lasting > 4 weeks::time?"
"Recurring anxiety-provoking, intrusive thoughts relieved by repetitive behaviors (rituals) that causes distress is characteristic of obsessive compulsive disorder::condition"
"Contamination::obsession = cleaning::compulsion"
"Perfectionism and preoccupation with order (med students) is most likely obsessive compulsive personality disorder::condition"
"Patients with obsessive compulsive personality disorder are ego-syntonic, which means their behavior is consistent with their own beliefs or attitudes"
"What are the treatments for body dysmorphic disorder? CBT and SSRIs::2"
"What psychiatric condition is characterized by recurrent hair pulling resulting in hair loss with significant distress/impairment? Trichotillomania"
"What is the non-pharmacological treatment for trichotillomania? CBT"
"Flashbacks, avoidance with depressive mood and hypervigilance following traumatic event lasting > 1 month::duration is suggestive of PTSD::diagnosis"
"6 year old adopted child is brought in because she has not formed a relationship with her adoptive parents. She is inhibited and hypervigilant. Diagnosis? Reactive attachment disorder"
"Disinhibited social engagement disorder = hugging strangers due to depriviation"
"Which personality disorder is characterized by unstable mood and relationships with suicidal gestures? Borderline (cluster B)"
"Splitting is a major defense mechanism seen in patients with borderline personality disorder"
"Antisocial personality disorder can only be diagnosed if the patient is > 18 years old and has a history of conduct disorder before age 15"
"CAGE questions for substance abuse? "
"In which order should thiamine and glucose be given in the treatment of alcohol withdrawal? Thiamine then glucose"
"Benzodiazpine withdrawal presents similarly to alcohol withdrawal"
"What is the treatment of choice for patients with alcohol withdrawal? Benzodiazepines (e.g. lorazepam)"
"Flumazenil is a competitive antagonist at the benzodiazepine GABA receptor, which is used to treat overdose or reverse sedative effects"
"Flumazenil (benzodiazepine reversal) = risk of seizures::adverse effect"
"Reversal of opioid overdose is managed with naloxone Treatment of opioid withdrawal is managed with methadone or buprenorphine/naloxone (Suboxone)"
"Cocaine intoxication can cause agitation, hypertension::BP, tachycardia::HR, and pupillary dilation::dilation/constriction"
"What drug intoxication presents as anxiety/paranoia/tachycardia, euphoria, increased appetite, and dry mouth? Marijuana"
"Barbiturates can cause severe CNS depression (e.g. coma) and should be avoided in elderly patients"
"Nicotine withdrawal may be treated using nicotine replacement or varenicline or bupropion::two drugs"
"Substance use disorder is defined as ≥ 2 of the following signs in 1 year"
"Withdrawal::Withdrawal/Tolerance: the development of a substance-specific syndrome due to the cessation (or reduction) of substance use that has been heavy and prolonged. Tolerance::Withdrawal/Tolerance: the need for ↑ amounts of the substance to achieve the desired effect or diminished effect if using the same amount of the substance."
"Diazepam and flurazepam and chlordiazepoxide are long-acting benzodiazepines"
"Irreversible memory loss (anterograde and retrograde), confabulation and personality change is characteristic of Korsakoff psychosis::condition"
"Wernicke encephalopathy typically manifests as a triad of encephalopathy, gait ataxia, and oculomotor dysfunction"
"Heavy drinking in men = 14 drinks per week or >4 drinks per day Heavy drinking in women = 7 drinks per week or >3 drinks per day"
"Naltrexone (opioid antagonist)first-line tx Acamprosate (NMDA/glutamate modulation)first-line tx Disulfiram (acetaldehyde-DH antagonist)second-line tx These are three drugs used for preventing alcohol relapse"
"Tachycardia, tremors and anxiety 2-4 days after surgery is suggestive of delirium tremens (DTs)::condition"
"Cocaine::Drug and Amphetamine::Drug = ↓ DAT reuptake of dopamine + NE"
"Cocaine may induce coronary vasospasm, which can cause MI, stroke, or ischemic colitis"
"Barbiturates increase Cl- conductance by increasing the duration::frequency/duration of channel opening"
"Benzodiazepines increase Cl- conductance by increasing the frequency::frequency/duration of channel opening"
"What is the likely drug intoxication in a patient that presents with slurred speech, lethargy, and difficulty walking? Pupils are 5 mm (normal) and respiratory rate is 8/min. Benzodiazepine or alcohol overdose"
"Sedatives (barbiturates > benzos)::drug or alcohol::drug = life-threatening withdrawal"
"Is opiate withdrawal life threatening? No!"
"Personality change and disinhibition followed by early dementia is suggestive of frontotemporal dementia (Pick disease)::condition"
"Lewy body dementia is characterized initially by dementia and visual hallucinations::neural symptom, followed by Parkinsonian features"
"Step-wise decline with periventricular (lacunar) infarcts = vascular dementia"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus presents with the triad of urinary incontinence, ataxic gait, and dementia, that improves with serial lumbar punctures and is treated with a(n) VP shunt"
"Pick disease is a degenerative disease of the frontal and temporal cortex"
"These are criteria for delirium::condition"
"B12 deficiency::Diagnosis?"
"= Wilson disease::diagnosis"
"= Neurosyphilis::diagnosis"
"The mini-mental state exam is sensitive::sensitive/specific but not specific::sensitive/specific"
"= Hypothyroidism::Diagnosis"
"What is the recommended pharmacotherapy for Alzheimer's dementia? Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (e.g. donepezil, rivastigmine)"
"Memantine is an NMDA receptor antagonist used to treat Alzheimer's disease"
"Pseudodementia refers to cognitive impairment that is secondary to major depressive disorder"
"Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by hyperactivity, impulsivity, and/or inattention in multiple settings (school, home, places of worship, etc.) for > 6 months::duration"
"At what age does bed wetting ( enuresis ) become concerning? After age 5 Therapies?  First-line: lifestyle changes ( void before bedtime, reward system, avoid sugary/caffeinated beverages ) Enuresis alarm Desmopressin therapy ( ADH analogue ) if first-line therapies fail"
"Child (< 18) with disregard for the basic rights of humans/animals is suggestive of Conduct disorder::condition"
"After age 18, conduct disorder is often reclassified as antisocial personality disorder"
"Methylphenidate is an amphetamine derivative used to treat ADHD"
"Clonidine and guanfacine are α2 agonists that may be used to treat ADHD that is refractory to treatment with stimulants"
"Childhood onset motor and vocal tics lasting ≥ 1 year is suggestive of Tourette's syndrome::condition"
"Pharmacologic treatment of night enuresis may include desmopressin::preferred or imipramine"
"Dissociative amnesia is an inability to recall important personal information, usually subsequent to severe trauma or stress"
"Dissociative identity disorder is characterized by the presence of 2 or more distinct personality states with extensive memory lapses usually following psychological trauma"
"As amnesia resolves and the overwhelming memories return, patients with dissociative amnesia are at an increased risk for suicide"
"Which medications are the most effective in treating dissociative disorders? None"
"What anti-epileptics may be used in the treatment of bipolar disorder? Valproate::first-line, lamotrigine::second-line, and carbamazepine::third-line"
"Is carbamazepine used to prevent manic relapse or treat acute mania in bipolar disorder? Acute mania (third-line)"
"Carbamazepine exerts its effects by blocking Na+ channels"
"Carbamazepine is a(n) inducer of cytochrome P450 and thus may have many drug interactions"
"What drug is as effective in mood disorders as carbamazepine, but better tolerated, with less risk of rash and hepatic toxicity? Oxcarbazepine"
"Valproic acid exerts its effects by blocking Na+ channels"
"Valproic acid is an anti-epileptic that may cause GI distress and pancreatitis as adverse effects"
"Valproic acid is an anti-epileptic that rarely causes a fatal hepatotoxicity"
"Patients taking valproate should have which tests prior to therapy and regular thereafter? Liver tests"
"Which anti-convulsant drug is most known for causing Stevens-Johnson syndrome? Lamotrigine"
"Is lamotrigine used to treat mania or depression in bipolar disorder? Depression, both treats acute bipolar depression and prevents depression relapse"
"What is management of a patient taking lamotrigine who develops a small maculopapular rash? Lamotrigine should be discontinued at the first sign of rash and substituted with another agent"
"Gabapentin is often used adjunctively to help with anxiety::psychiatric illness, sleep, and neuropathic pain"
"Pregabalin is used to treat generalized anxiety disorder::psychiatric illness (second-line) and fibromyalgia"
"Topiramate is an anti-epileptic that may be helpful in the treatment of impulse control disorders"
"Topiramate is an anti-epileptic associated with weight loss"
"Topiramate may cause cognitive slowing::most-limiting side effect"
"The illness production and motivation in somatic symptom disorder are unconscious::conscious/ unconscious drives"
"How long must symptoms be present to establish a diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder? >6 months"
"What is treatment for conversion disorder? First-line: Education and self-help techniques Second-line: CBT"
"Factitious disorders are when a patient consciously::consciously/unconsciously creates physical and/or psychological symptoms in order to assume a \sick role\\" to get medical attention and sympathy (primary/internal gain)\""
"Malingering is when a patient consciously::consciously/unconsciously fakes, profoundly exaggerates, or claims to have a disorder in order to attain a secondary (external) gain (e.g. avoid work, obtain compensation)"
"Is malingering a mental illness? No"
"Between malingering, factitious, and somatic symptom disorders, which disease do patines have intentional symptoms and motivation? Malingering"
"Low levels of serotonin in the CSF have been shown to be associated with impulsiveness and aggression."
"Intermittent explosive disorder is characterized by recurrent behavioral outbursts that are unplanned and out of proportion to the provocation."
"What psychiatric disorder is characterized by failure to resist uncontrollable urges to steal objects that are not needed for personal use or monetary value, with increasing tension immediately prior to the theft and pleasure or relief is experienced while stealing? Kleptomania"
"65% of patients with kleptomania suffer from bulimia nervosa"
"How do you treat kleptomania? CBT and SSRIs::2"
"Pyromania is diagnosed following 2+ episode(s) of deliberate fire setting"
"Most kleptomaniacs are female::gender, while most pyromaniacs are male::gender"
"Anorexia nervosa is defined as excessive dieting, exercise, or binge eating/purging with BMI < 18.5 kg/m2"
"Using only appetite to differentiate anorexia nervosa from major depressive disorder, anorexic patients have a(n) good::good/poor appetite, while depressed patients have a(n) poor::good/poor appetite"
"Anorexia nervosa is separated into restricting and binge/purge subtypes"
"Patients with anorexia nervosa present with bradycardia::HR, hypotension::BP, and decreased bowel sounds"
"Anorexia nervosa is associated with hypercarotenemia::hypocarotenemia/hypercarotenemia"
"Anorexia nervosa is associated with decreased bone density and metatarsal::location stress fractures"
"Amenorrhea is a concern if a patient does not menstruate by age 15"
"What hormone is often increased in patients with anorexia nervosa? Cortisol"
"What BMI is an indication for hospitalization of a patient with anorexia nervosa? < 15 kg/m2"
"What pharmacotherapy may be used to treat anorexia nervosa? Olanzapine"
"What electrolyte changes result from the massive insulin surge in refeeding syndrome? Hypophosphatemia Hypokalemia Hypomagnesemia::3"
"Bulimia nervosa is defined as binge eating with recurrent inappropriate compensatory behaviors occurring once weekly for at least three months::duration"
"Bulimia nervosa is associated with parotitis and enamel erosion due to excessive vomiting"
"Bulimia nervosa is characterized by electrolyte disturbances and metabolic alkalosis::acidosis/alkalosis"
"SSRIs are effective in bulimia::anorexia/bulimia"
"Treatment for bulimia nervosa may include psychotherapy, nutritional rehabilitation, and fluoxetine::specific SSRI"
"Binge eating disorder is characterized by regular episodes of excessive, uncontrollable eating without::with/without compensatory behaviors"
"Treatment for binge eating disorder is CBT +/- stimulants"
"Avoidant-Restrictive Food Intake Disorder (ARFID) is the lack of interest and avoidance of eating based on the sensory characteristics of food, with typical onset in infancy or early childhood"
"REM sleep is characterized by ↑::↑/↓ in blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate"
"Both the elderly and depressed experience decreased::increased/decreased slow wave sleep (stage N3)"
"Both the elderly and depressed experience increased::increased/decreased early awakenings (terminal insomnia)"
"Age-associated sleep patterns include: ↓::↑/↓ Total sleep time ↑::↑/↓ Nocturnal awakenings ↓::↑/↓ Sleep during early morning hours ↑::↑/↓ Day time napping ↓::↑/↓ Day time sleep latency ↓::↑/↓ REM sleep latency"
"What criteria defines insomnia disorder? Insomnia for >3 nights a week for >3 months"
"Acute insomnia is commonly caused by psychological stress or jet lag Chronic insomnia is typically secondary to psychiatric conditions, medications/substances, or medical problems"
"Treatment of insomnia involves addressing the underlying cause, psychiatric evaluation, and sparingly sedative-hypnotics with caution for symptomatic relief"
"Chronic insomnia is defined as difficulty initiating/maintaining sleep or early-morning awakening with inability to return to sleep that occurs at least 3 days a week::frequency for at least 3 months::duration"
"What is considered first-line therapy for chronic insomnia? CBT"
"Benzodiazepines may be used as a hypnotic to treat insomnia, but they are not first line treatment due to physical dependence"
"What is the most common reason patients are put on long-term benzodiazepines? Insomnia"
"Hypersomnolence disorders are characterized by excessive sleepiness despite at least 7 hours of sleep that occurs at least 3 times per week::frequency for at least 3 months::duration"
"What is the first-line treatment for hypersomnolence disorders? Stimulants"
"Obstructive sleep apnea is characterized by intermittent obstuction of the air flow during sleep"
"Obstructive sleep apnea is most commonly associated with obesity::risk factor and presents with snoring and daytime sleepiness"
"Obstructive sleep apnea is diagnosed with polysomnography and treated with CPAP"
"30% of chronic opioid users have central sleep apnea"
"Hypnagogic hallucinations occur while going to sleep while hypnopompic hallucinations occur while waking from sleep; these are sometimes seen in narcolepsy"
"Narcolepsy is associated with cataplexy, which is the loss of all muscle tone following a(n) strong emotional stimulus (e.g. laughter)"
"Pharmacologic treatment of narcolepsy involves daytime modafinil and nighttime sodium oxybate (GHB)"
"Diphenhydramine may be used as a(n) sleep aid, but may cause significant sedation::anti-histamine reaction and have significant anti-muscarinic properties"
"Patients with significant cataplexy may benefit from REM sleep-suppressing drugs, including antidepressants and sodium oxybate"
"Circadian rhythm sleep-wake disorder with delayed sleep phases involves inability to fall asleep for >2 hours::time"
"What coordinates 24-hour/circadian rhythmicity? Suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the hypothalamus"
"An abrupt awakening from NREM sleep with a sensation of chest tightness/choking is known as nocturnal panic attacks"
"Sleep terror disorder is characterized by inconsolable periods of terror with screaming in the middle of the night (non-REM sleep) without::with/without recall of dream content"
"What type of therapy is often used to treat nightmare disorder? Desensitization/Imagery rehearsal therapy"
"REM sleep behavior disorder is characterized by repeated arousals during sleep associated with physically acting out dream behaviors occurring during REM sleep due to lack of muscle atonia"
"REM sleep behavior disorder is characterized by a lack of muscle atonia during REM sleep"
"What associated symptoms are sometimes present in REM sleep behavior disorder? Parkinsonism (e.g. changes in gait, anosmia, constipation) REM sleep behavior disorder may be a prodromal sign of neurodegeneration"
"REM sleep behavior disorder is highly associated with underlying neurodegenerative disorders"
"What is the first-line treatment in REM sleep behavior disorder? Clonazepam (Klonopin)"
"Restless leg syndrome is associated with iron deficiency"
"What is the first-line treatment in Restless Leg Syndrome? Dopamine agonists Benzodiazepines::2"
"At what age is gender dysphoria more likely to be enduring? Adolescence"
"According to Freud, the superego is the aspect of one's psyche that represents \morality"
"Which ego defense is defined as regulating situations and events of external environment to relieve anxiety? Controlling (immature defense)"
"Which ego defense is defined as attempting to reverse a situation by adopting a new behavior? Undoing (immature defense)"
"The mature mechanisms of ego defense may be remembered with the mnemonic \SASH\\": S: sublimation A: altruism S: suppression H: humor\""
"Which type of psychotherapy focuses on resolving unconscious conflicts by bringing repressed experiences and feelings into awareness and integrating them into the patient’s conscious experience? Psychoanalysis"
"Psychodynamic psychotherapy focuses on the role of unconscious conflict and gaining insight into how past experience shapes present situations"
"Which specific type of behavioral therapy is used to treat a wide scope of clinical conditions including agoraphobia, fecal incontinence, tension headache, and hypertension? Biofeedback"
"Biofeedback psychotherapy involves using signals from the body (e.g. heart rate, muscle tension, skin temperature, blood pressure) as indicators of emotional distress, which can give patients control over physiological reactions"
"Which type of psychotherapy seeks to correct faulty assumptions and negative feelings that exacerbate psychiatric symptoms? Cognitive therapy"
"What psychiatric disorder is cognitive behavioral therapy offered as second line? Conversion disorder"
"Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing treatment is a complex method of psychotherapy that integrates therapy with eye movements"
"Eye movement desensitization and reprocessing treatment is helpful for patients with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)"
"Interpersonal psychotherapy is an evidenced-based therapy for depression that focuses on the link between depressive symptoms and interpersonal relationship conflicts"
"Supportive psychotherapy is used to reinforce a patient's ability to cope with stressors and is commonly used for low-functioning patients or patients in crisis who are at risk of decompensation"
"Negligence is practicing below the standard of care"
"Malpractice is Deviation (neglect) from Duty that was the Direct cause of Damage"
"If a malpractice case is successful, the patient can receive compensatory damages::reimbursement for medical expenses, lost salary, or physical suffering and punitive damages::money awarded to “punish” the doctor"
"Involuntary commitment to a psychiatric hospital is supported by legal principles of police power::protecting citizens from each other and parens patriae::protecting citizens who can’t care for themselves"
"What is the term for the obligation of a physician to report patients who are potentially dangerous to others? The Tarasoff duty or duty to warn"
"Is someone who is mentally ill competent to stand trial? Yes"
"Capacity::capacity/competence is a clinical term and may be assessed by physicians, while competence::capacity/competence is a legal term and can be decided only by a judge"
"Minors are considered emancipated if they are self-supporting, in the military, married, or have children or pregnant"
"What is management of suspected elder abuse? Report to adult protective services or other governmental agency"
"Central sleep apnea occurs due to no respiratory effort (e.g. CNS injury, HF, opioids)"
"Cheyne-Stokes respiration is associated with severe heart or brain failure (↑ CO2)::condition"
"What sexual dysfunction may be treated with SSRIs? Premature ejaculation"
"SSRIs may be used to treat premenstrual dysphoric disorder, a severe form of premenstrual syndrome (PMS)"
"What diabetes complication can be treated with SNRIs? Diabetic neuropathy"
"Duloxetine is an SNRI that is indicated for the treatment of fibromyalgia::pain pathology"
"The symptoms of serotonin syndrome can be remembered with the \3 A's\\": Neuromuscular hyperActivity (clonus"
"TCAs, such as amitryptiline, may be used for migraine prophylaxis"
"TCAs are a class of antidepressants that can cause QT interval prolongation, which precipitates Torsades de pointes"
"Tricyclic antidepressants are associated with the \Tri-C\\" side effects: Convulsions"
"Adverse effects of tricyclic antidepressants::class of antidepressants include respiratory depression and hyperpyrexia"
"Depression drugs (MAO inhibitors, SSRIs, and TCAs) are contraindicated in patients taking St. John's wort, which is a medicinal herb with antidepressant activity"
"Bupropion may cause seizures, especially in anorexic or bulimic patients"
"Mirtazapine is a(n) α2-adrenergic antagonist, which increases pre-synaptic release of serotonin and norepinephrine"
"Which atypical antidepressant is useful for treating depressed patients with insomnia? Mirtazapine"
"Trazodone is an atypical antidepressant that can cause priapism in men"
"Trazodone is an atypical antidepressant that is primarily used to treat insomnia"
"The high potency typical antipsychotics are trifluoperazine, fluphenazine, and haloperidol"
"The low potency typical antipsychotics are chlorpromazine and thioridazine"
"Typical antipsychotics are associated with α1-adrenergic blockade, which may cause orthostatic hypotension"
"Which extrapyramidal symptoms (e.g. due to antipsychotic use) occur > 6 months after starting? Tardive dyskinesia"
"The symptoms of neuroleptic malignant syndrome may be remembered with the mnemonic \Malignant FEVER\\": Myoglobinuria Fever Encephalopathy (altered mental status) unstable Vitals (autonomic instability) ↑ Enzymes (e.g. CK) muscle Rigidity (lead pipe)\""
"Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is often characterized by a generalized \lead-pipe\\" rigidity\""
"The typical antipsychotic chlorpromazine is associated with corneal deposits"
"The typical antipsychotic thioridazine is associated with retinal deposits"
"What drug class do lurasidone and ziprasidone belong to? Atypical antipsychotics (2nd generation)"
"Clozapine::Atypical antipsychotic = ↓ suicide risk in schizophrenia"
"Which atypical antipsychotics are most associated with metabolic syndrome? \-pines\\" (esp. clozapine and olanzapine)\""
"Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic that may cause agranulocytosis::hematologic abnormality"
"Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic that may cause myocarditis::cardiac complications and cardiomyopathy"
"Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic associated with a dose dependent risk for seizures::neurologic complication"
"Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic that often causes hyperprolactinemia::endocrine complication"
"Which antidepressant causes: - Anti-cholinergic effects → dry, flushed skin and dilated pupils - Anti-adrenergic (a1) effects → hypotension - Anti-H1 histamine receptor - Arrhythmias TCAs"
"Depression and insomnia = mirtazapine::antidepressant or trazodone::antidepressant"
"Acute dystonia 2° to antipsychotics = diphenhydramine (antihistamine)::drug or benztropine (antimuscarinic)::drug Akathisia 2° to antipsychotics = β-blockers::drug, benztropine, or benzodiazpines"
"Clozapine::Atypical antipsychotic = only appropriate after failing 2 other drugs (refractory schizophrenia)"
"What anti-epileptics may be used in the treatment of bipolar disorder? Valproate Carbamazepine Lamotrigine::3"
"Are valproate and carbamazepine used to prevent relapse or treat acute mania in bipolar disorder? Both"
"Bipolar depression is managed with lamotrigine::treatment"
"Which mood stabilizers are considered 1st line therapy for bipolar disorder? Lithium Valproic Acid (Depakote)::2"
"Which dopaminergic pathway is associated with the positive symptoms of schizophrenia? Mesolimbic"
"Which atypical antipsychotic is often dosed at nighttime? Quetiapine (Seroquel)"
"Which second generation antipsychotic is most likely to cause extrapyramidal symptoms? Risperidone"
"What class of antipsychotics is considered first-line therapy in newly diagnosed schizophrenia? Atypical::Typical/Atypical"
"SSRIs should be taken for 6 weeks at full dose before considering change"
"Typical or first-generation antipsychotics treat psychosis by blocking dopamine (D2) receptors Atypical or second-generation antipsychotics block both dopamine (D2) and serotonin (2A) receptors"
"Plot A = change in potency::efficacy/potencyPlot B = change in efficacy::efficacy/potency"
"Modafinil is a stimulant used to treat narcolepsy"
"Postpartum blues is characterized by depressed affect, tearfulness, and fatigue starting 2-3 days after delivery for < 2 weeks"
"Postpartum depression is characterized by depressed affect, anxiety, and poor concentration for > 2 weeks"
"Which specifier for mood disorders is characterized by catalepsy (immobility), purposeless motor activity, extreme negativism or mutism, bizarre postures, and echolalia? Catatonia"
"Depression and no sexual side effects = bupropion::antidepressant"
"What is the pharmacological management of PCP toxicity? Benzodiazepines"
"Depression is associated with decreased REM latency and increased total REM sleep"
"Sexual assault increases the risk factor for what other psychiatric condition? MDD and suicidal ideation and attempts Not borderline personality, homicidal ideation/attempts, panic disorder, persecutory delusions"
"Teenager with active suicidal ideation - inform parents? Yes, and hospitalize"
"Overdose of benzodiazepines = CNS depression with normal::normal/abnormal vitals Overdose of benzodiazepines and alcohol = CNS depression with abnormal::normal/abnormal vitals"
"Stimulants (e.g. amphetamine, methylphenidate) may suppress appetite"
"Depression can often present in the office with somatic::type of compliants"
"Gifts given by mentally unstable patients should not::should/should not be accepted"
"Ecstasy (MDMA) = amphetamine::class of drug"
"Patients with Lewy body dementia are especially sensitive to antipsychotic::class drugs"
"Nightmare disorder = remember::remember/cannot remember Sleep terror disorder = cannot remember::remember/cannot remember"
"Disulfiram inhibits acetaldehyde dehydrogenase::acetaldehyde dehydrogenase/alcohol dehydrogenase"
"Anxiety, sleep disturbances, ↑ LFTs and macrocytosis is suggestive of alcohol use disorder::diagnosis"
"Strongest risk factor predictive of suicide = prior suicide attempt"
"What is pharmacotherapy of tardive dyskinesia? Valbenazine"
"Which second-generation antipsychotics are most associated with prolonged QTc? Risperidone Ziprasidone"
"Risperidone = high potency antipsychotic Quetiapine and clozapine = low potency antipsychotic"
"Depressive symptoms and fatigue, sleep disturbance, impaired concentration/irritability in an obese person is suggestive of obstructive sleep apnea::diagnosis"
"Delusional disorder = high functioning Schizophrenia = low functioning"
"Lifetime prevalence of schizophrenia ≈ 1%::%"
"What dopaminergic pathway abnormalities are theorized to be responsible for the positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia? Positive symptoms: excessive mesolimbic dopaminergic activity Negative symptoms: inadequate prefrontal cortical or mesocortical tract dopaminergic activity"
"Blockage of the mesocortical dopamine pathway results in increased negative\ symptoms of schizophrenia.\""
"High-potency antipsychotics (e.g. haldol) are often given as an intramuscular injection::means of administration to treat acute agitation or psychosis"
"Which typical antipsychotic is associated with a purple grey metallic rash over sun-exposed areas and jaundice? Chlorpromazine"
"Aripiprazole::Atypical antipsychotic and ziprasidone::atypical antipsychotic = ↓ chance of weight gain"
"Atypical antipsychotic with sedative/orthostasis effects? Quetiapine"
"Fluoxetine is an SSRI with a long half-life therefore no need to taper"
"Most drug-drug interactions = Paroxetine::SSRI Fewest drug-drug interactions = Citalopram::SSRI"
"Which SSRI/SNRI is typically avoided in hypertensive patients? Venlafaxine"
"Depression and leaden paralysis (heavy limbs) is most likely atypical depression::condition"
"What drugs are used for maintenance therapy in bipolar disorder? 1. Lithium 2. Valproate 3. Quetiapine 4. Lamotrigine"
"Which 1st line mood stabilizer is associated with U waves and flattened/inverted T waves on ECG? Lithium"
"Carbamazepine::Antiepileptic = risk of aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis"
"Phenytoin and carbamazepine are two anti-epileptics associated with DRESS (Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms)"
"What is the therapeutic range of: Lithium?  0.6 - 1.2 Carbamezapine? 6-12 Valproate? 60-120"
"Anorexia = ↓ LH/FSH/estrogen"
"Restless leg syndrome is associated with iron deficiency and chronic kidney disease"
"Delirium::Dementia or Delirium is associated with a(n) diffuse, slowing pattern on EEG"
"Silver staining spherical tau aggregates in neurons is suggestive of frontotemporal dementia (Pick disease)::condition"
"Eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusion in neuron Lewy body"
"\Triphasic bursts\\" on EEG = Creutzfeldt Jakob\""
"What AST:ALT ratio is indicative of heavy alcohol use? >2:1 AST:ALT"
"Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome is characterized by damage to the dorsomedial nucleus of the thalamus and mammillary bodies"
"Opioid overdose and RR < 8 is managed with intubate::next step"
"Supportive measures for opioid withdrawal include: - alpha-2 adrenergic agonists (clonidine for anxiety and hypertension - ibuprofen (for muscle cramps) - loperamide (for diarrhea)"
"Egocentric = preoperational stage (3-5 y.o.) Death is permanent = concrete operational stage (6-11 y.o.)Abstract reasoning = formal operational stage (11 y.o. - adolescence)"
"IQ Testing: 25-40 = severe mental retardation 40-55 = moderate mental retardation55-70 = mild mental retardation"
"Gargoylism and corneal clouding is suggestive of Hurler syndrome::condition"
"Child presents with an intellectual disability, seizures, \happy puppet\\" with laughing"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a non-dysmorphic infant that presents with bilateral lower extremity hypertonia and hyperreflexia with equinovarus deformities of both feet? Cerebral palsy (spastic diplegia subtype)"
"Rett syndrome presents in girls::girls/boys as motor, verbal, and intellectual regression with stereotyped hand-wringing"
"ADHD is diagnosed in 2::# or more settings"
"First line treatment of Tourette's syndrome is VMAT2 inhibitors > atypical antipsychotics"
"Rumination disorder is a psychiatric disorder that involves the regurgitation and re-chewing of food"
"C"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that experiences sleep difficulties with “normal” bed times? The patient has no difficulty going to bed and waking up late (e.g. sleeping from 4 am to 12 pm). Delayed sleep phase syndrome"
"Fear of public speaking is a performance subtype of a(n) social::social/specific phobia"
"β-blockers can worsen what psychiatric condition? Depression"
"Seizure that is localized to one hemisphere, impairs consciousness and with motor automatisms (lip smacking, chewing). Diagnosis? Complex partial seizure (focal seizure with impaired awareness)"
"Marked atrophy of the caudate nucleus is seen in Huntington disease::condition"
"Huntington Disease is a neurological disorder characterized by a classic triad of choreiform movement, dementia/depression, and behavioural changes"
"Delusion(s) lasting > 1 month::duration and otherwise normal functioning is suggestive of delusional disorder::condition"
"Manic symptoms and THC in urine is suggestive of bipolar 1::diagnosis"
"Chronic alcohol abuse can lead to erectile dysfunction"
"What cause of intellectual disability is associated with small palpebral fissures, smooth philtrum, and thin vermillion border? Fetal alcohol syndrome"
"Alzheimer disease = ↓ ACh::neurotransmitter in basal nucleus of meynert"
"What contaminant in illicit drugs (e.g. synthetic heroin) historically is associated with Parkinson disease? MPTP"
"Prochlorperazine = D2 blocker (chemotherapy antiemetic)::drug class"
"Young woman with blurry vision and focal neurological symptoms (weakness, numbness, tingling) separated by \time and space\\" is suggestive of MS::diagnosis\""
"Multiple sclerosis = MRI::diagnostic test"
"Parotitis is finding seen in patients with bulimia nervosa, which may show a(n) elevated::elevated/decreased amylase"
"↓ REM sleep latency and hallucinations/sleep paralysis is suggestive of narcolepsy::condition"
"Increased sensitivity to lactate infusion is associated with panic attacks"
"Huntington disease = ↑ dopamine::neurotransmitter"
"Huntington disease = ↓ ACh::neurotransmitter and ↓ GABA::neurotransmitter"
"Tactile hallucinations are common in alcohol withdrawal and stimulant use (e.g. cocaine, amphetamines)"
"Turbinate erythema is suggestive of cocaine use disorder::diagnosis"
"Overdose of acetaminophen causes gastroenteritis::sx within hours; hepatotoxicity::sx within 1-2 days"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a premenopausal woman with aversion to sexual intercourse due to muscle spasm/pain with penetration? External pelvic examination is unremarkable. Genito-pelvic pain/penetration disorder (vaginismus)"
"Child with OCD/tic disorder abruptly worsened by group A strep infection is suggestive of PANDAS::diagnosis"
"Protein aggregates in neurons from hyperphosphorylation of tau protein: Pick bodies (Pick's Disease) and Neurofibrillary tangles (Alzheimer disease) "
"Which specifier for mood disorders is characterized by the presence of delusions and/or hallucinations? Psychotic features"
"What CT finding may be found in patient's with late-stage Alzheimer's disease? Diffuse cortical and subcortical atrophy"
"Impaired CSF reabsorption at the arachnoid villi leads to normal pressure hydrocephalus::condition"
"What type of β-blocker is metoprolol? Selective β1 antagonist (cardioselective)"
"IV morphine dosage in hospice patients = 2-4::#-# mg q2h"
"Treatment of vaginismus is pelvic floor physical therapy"
"Fragile X Syndrome: CGG Repeats FMR-1 gene repression due to hypermethylation X-linked dominant inheritance MVP::cardiac abnormality"
"Pharmacological treatment of agitation in delirium is managed with haloperidol::first-line"
"Acute and late onset schizophrenia = good::good/poor prognosis"
"First time MDD = 6 months::length of SSRI therapy at working doseRecurrent MDD = 2 years::length of SSRI therapy at working dose"
"Dementia and visual hallucinations followed by early Parkinsonism is suggestive of Lewy body dementia::condition"
"Multiple system atrophy (MSA)::What condition? involves 2/3 of: Motor abnormalities (Parkinsonian) Autonomic insufficiency (orthostatic hypotension, incontinence) Cerebellar ataxia"
"Increased levels of porphobilinogen and D-ALA are seen in acute intermittent porphyria"
"Difficulty comprehending or expressing language leading to limited vocabulary and errors in tense and simple sentences is suggestive of language disorder::diagnosis"
"Anorexia = Hypercholesterolemia"
"Death is permanent = 7 years old"
"Depressive symptoms and alcohol use is suggestive of substance induced mood disorder::diagnosis"
"Steroids and psychotic symptoms is suggestive of substance-induced psychotic disorder::diagnosis"
"Lewy body dementia is managed with AChE inhibitors (e.g. donepezil)::treatment"
"Sexual sadism = derivation of pleasure from causing abuse Sexual masochism = derivation of pleasure from receiving abuse"
"Serotonin production = raphe nuclei::CNS structure"
"A 22-year-old woman on olanzapine experiences sedation and weight gain due to antagonism of the H1 histamine receptor"
"Defense Mechanism? Denial"
"Which NSAID does NOT affect lithium levels? Aspirin"
"SSRIs during pregnancy may cause persistent pulmonary hypertension in newborns"
"How can anorexia affect the CVS? Through electrolyte imbalances"
"Next step after finding SSRIs work but cause sexual dysfunction? Wait for a short time, then decrease dose of SSRI"
"Inside the body: (1) hamartomas (2) subependymal nodules Outside the body: (1) angiofibromas (on face) (2) ash-leaf spots (anywhere on skin) (3) shagreen patches (common on low back) = Tuberous sclerosis"
"Reflex sympathetic dystrophy, aka complex regional pain syndrome is pain after a(n) trauma::event"
"Reflex sympathetic dystrophy aka complex regional pain syndrome is pain after a(n) trauma::event"
"Which type of delusion includes thought broadcasting and thought insertion? Delusion of control"
"What are USPSTF recommendations for hypertension screening? Screen adults (18+) for HTN by measurement of BP (level A)"
"What are USPSTF recommendations for screening for lipid disorders? Men 35+::age and women 45+::age Adults 20+::age who are increased risk for cardiovascular disease (level B)"
"What are the recommended cardiovascular screening tests in a healthy 52 year old male? Hypertension: all adults (age 18 or older) Lipid screening: men >35 or women >45 Aspirin if 50-59 with >10% 10-year CVD risk"
"What are the recommendations for colorectal cancer screening? Adults older than 50 strongly advised: FOBT- annually Flex sigmoidoscopy w/ or without occult blood testing- q3-5 years Colonoscopy- q10 years::Three screens"
"Secondary disease prevention = Screen to prevent progression of disease (mammogram, pap smear) Primary disease prevention = Prevent onset of disease (vaccination) Tertiary disease prevention = Treat to prevent complications of disease (chemotherapy)"
"At which age is screening for colorectal cancer recommended in adults? ≥ 50 q10y or 10 years prior to the age of diagnosis of an affected first-degree relative"
"What are the recommended screening guidelines for mammogram in patients with average risk of breast cancer? 50-74, q2y"
"What are the recommended screening guidelines for a Pap smear in patients with average risk of cervical cancer? 21, q3y"
"Yearly lung cancer screening via low-dose chest CT is recommended for those between 50 to 80 years old who have a > 20-pack-year history and are current smokers/quit within the last 15 years"
"What is the recommended screening test for prostate cancer? None"
"Who should be screened for hepatitis C? Adults aged 18-79"
"Diabetes screening recommended in adults 40-70 who are overweight/obese::population"
"What are the true contraindications to vaccinations? Anaphylaxis to previous vaccination Very sick::2"
"What kind of bias is this? Selection bias"
"Confounding occurs when the risk factor-disease relationship is obscured by an external variable associated with both the risk exposure and disease"
"Gene X is known as a(n) effect modifier"
"Colorectal cancer screening for adults older than 50: - FOBT: qannually - Sigmoidoscopy: q5 years with FOBT q3y - Colonoscopy: q10 years"
"BMI > 25 = overweightBMI > 30 = obesity"
"Ask about tobacco, alcohol, and depression? Yes"
"Who should get a Tdap vaccine and how often? All adults 19-65, q10y"
"Adults over 65 should receive a(n) one-time dose pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23)"
"What medications should be administered to patient for acute management of asthma exacerbation? (5) Oxygen Inhaled SABA Hydrocortisone (systemic corticosteroid) Ipratropium (nebs) Theophylline (rare)"
"Methacholine::drug = asthma challenge testing (if spirometry normal)"
"Charcot-Leyden crystals in sputum and Curschmann spirals (whorled mucous plugs) are seen in asthma::condition"
"What drug class do montelukast and zafirlukast belong to? Leukotriene D4-receptor antagonists (LTRAs)"
"Asthma wheezing that disappears = bad::good/bad sign"
"Reversible bronchoconstriction and inflammation of airways is characteristic of asthma::condition"
"Omalizumab = mAb targeting IgE::protein"
"Nocturnal asthma = GERD::cause"
"- GERD first step in management = PPI - GERD and alarm symptoms (weight loss, GI bleed) = endoscopy (for biopsy)) - GERD and complications (stricture, Barrett's, refractory) = surgery (Nissen fundoplication)"
"GERD and metaplasia is managed with high dose PPI::treatment GERD and dysplasia is managed with high dose PPI and local ablation::treatment"
"What is the initial management for a patient with suspected GERD who has a bitter taste, substernal chest pain, dysphagia and weight loss? Endoscopy"
"Shallow, multiple ulcers = NSAID::cause"
"Large, singular ulcer = H. Pylori::cause"
"Refractory peptic ulcers and high gastrin levels: Zollinger-Ellison syndrome::Diagnosis?"
"Gastric ulcers present with epigastric pain that worsens with meals and can therefore lead to weight loss"
"Describe the location of pain associated with peptic ulcer disease vs. GERD: PUD: epigastric pain (e.g. near stomach/duodenum) GERD: retrosternal pain (e.g. near esophagus)"
"Triple therapy for H. pylori includes: PPI Amoxicillin Clarithromycin"
"One adverse effect of NSAIDs is gastric ulcers (GI) due to inhibition of COX-1"
"What two risky activities should you stop doing if you have peptic ulcer disease? Smoking/alcohol (damages mucosa)"
"Refractory duodenal ulcers and diarrhea is suggestive of ZES::diagnosis"
"Hypergastrinemia (i.e. gastrinoma) is most likely caused by Zollinger-Ellison syndrome::condition"
"Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy or CT scan is used to diagnose ZES"
"Postprandial fullness, early satiety and epigastric pain or burning are symptoms of dyspepsia"
"Can serology for H. Pylori differentiate active vs latent infection? No"
"What imaging test is used to evaluate bright red blood per rectum in a patient > 50 years old or < 50 years old with risk factors for CRC? Colonoscopy"
"One adverse effect of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) is increased risk for Clostridioides difficile infection (2-3x increased risk)"
"Long-term PPI = ↓ Mg and Fe and Ca"
"What anatomical landmark separates the upper and lower GI tracts? Ligament of Treitz"
"What is the first step in the treatment of acute upper GI bleed (e.g. variceal hemorrhage) in a patient with a normal airway/breathing? Vascular access with two large-bore IV catheters"
"Upper vs. Lower GI Bleeding: Diagnose Upper GI bleed with EGD Diagnose Lower GI bleed with Arteriogram (fast bleeding) Diagnose Lower GI bleed with Tagged RBC scan (slow bleeding) Diagnose Lower GI bleed with Colonoscopy (no bleeding)"
"Recurrent GI bleeding from esophageal varices is managed with TIPS::Treatment"
"Brisk painless bleed due to abnormally exposed gastric arteriole = dieulafoy's lesion"
"Diverticulosis and bright red blood per rectum is suggestive of diverticular hemorrhage::diagnosis"
"Hematochezia: bright red blood visible in the stool"
"Hematochezia is usually pathognomonic of lower GI bleeding, but can also be found in patients with heavy upper GI bleeding"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease is characterized by continuous colonic involvement? Ulcerative colitis"
"What dietary habits decrease the risk of diverticulosis complications (e.g. hemorrhage, diverticulitis)? High fiber intake"
"Irritable bowel syndrome involves ≥ 3 months of abdominal pain with 2/3 of: Pain improving with defecation Changes in stool frequency Changes in stool appearance"
"What is the most likely diagonsis in an elderly patient who presents with fatigue/conjunctival pallor and use of aspirin/NSAIDs? Iron deficiency anemia secondary to blood loss"
"One cause of vitamin B12 deficiency is pernicious anemia, which is characterized by lack of intrinsic factor"
"Crohn disease (IBD) is characterized by skip lesions, which can occur anywhere from the mouth to the anus"
"Which form of IBD may cause watery diarrhea and weight loss? Crohn disease"
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD = crypt abscesses filled with neutrophils"
"Crohn disease (IBD) = lymphoid aggregates with noncaseating granulomas"
"Crohn disease (IBD) = strictures cause \string\\" sign\""
"Ulcerative colitis::IBD may be associated with positive serum p-ANCA"
"Ulcerative colitis = Start 8 yrs after diagnosis and continue with q1y screening::screening for colorectal cancer Crohn's = No risk of colorectal cancer"
"DOC for mild IBD = 5-aminosalicylates (sulfasalazine, mesalamine)::drug class DOC for moderate IBD = immune modulators (azathioprine, 6-MP, methotrexate)::drug class DOC for severe IBD = TNF-a inhibitor (Infliximab, for Crohn) vs. Surgery (UC)::drug class DOC for IBD flares = steroids::drug class"
"Crohn disease::IBD = malabsorption and nutritional depletion"
"Risk factors for cholesterol gallstones may be remembered with the \4 F's\\": Fat Female (estrogen increases activity of HMG-CoA reductase) Fertile (pregnant) Forty\""
"Acute cholecystitis presents with RUQ pain that often radiates to the right shoulder/scapula"
"Cholecystitis is associated with a positive Murphy's sign, which is inspiratory arrest after RUQ palpation due to pain"
"Cholecystitis is diagnosed with ultrasound or cholescintigraphy (HIDA scan)::if ultrasound is inconclusive"
"Ascending cholangitis is a bacterial infection of the bile ducts"
"In addition to the Charcot triad, ascending cholangitis may also present with AMS and shock::Reynolds pentad"
"Choledocholithiasis is the presence of gallstones is the common bile duct, often leading to elevated ALP, GGT, direct bilirubin, and/or AST/ALT"
"Colicky RUQ abdominal pain that may radiate to right shoulder and occur after fatty meal is suggestive of cholelithiasis::diagnosis"
"The primary inciting event of acute cholecystitis is typically a gallstone obstructing the cystic duct, with subsequent inflammation and infection"
"When should patients with acute cholecystitis have a cholecystectomy? Within 72 hours"
"What is the treatment for choledocholithiasis? ERCP with sphincterotomy and stone removal; eventual cholecystectomy"
"Painful jaundice is typically secondary to biliary obstruction from CBD stones"
"Antibiotic coverage for gallbladder disease = Cipro or Amp-Gent and Metronidazole"
"Invasive::Invasive/Enterotoxic diarrhea = bloody stool; fever; abdominal pain; leukocytosis; fecal WBCs Enterotoxic::Invasive/Enterotoxic diarrhea = watery stool without leukocytosis, fever, bloody stool, and fecal WBCs"
"Patient presents with abdominal pain, diarrhea, leukocytosis, and recent antibiotic use: Clostridioides difficile infection::Diagnosis"
"Vibrio cholerae is acquired via contaminated drinking water::mechanism"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that developed sudden-onset abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting after returning from a hike and eating leftover Chinese food? Bacillus cereus food poisoning"
"Which pathogen responsible for acute bacterial bloody diarrhea is transmitted from raw chicken or eggs? Salmonella"
"What antibiotic regimen is used to treat fulminant C. difficile colitis? IV metronidazole Oral vancomycin"
"Hemolytic uremic syndrome is characterized by thrombocytopenia, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and acute renal failure::organ failure"
"What is the best test for Clostiridium difficile diarrhea? NAAT Not the toxin assay nor colonoscopy"
"(+) lactoferrin test = bacterial::bacterial/viral infections"
"Acute diarrhea < 2 weeks Chronic diarrhea > 4 weeks"
"EHEC::E. coli subtype? = bovine natural flora / transmitted through undercooked meat"
"What is the most effective way to prevent the spread of viral diarrhea? Hand washing"
"Rotavirus is a dsRNA reovirus that is a major cause of acute watery diarrhea in the USA during the winter, especially in day-care centers and kindergartens (babies/toddlers)"
"Flushing, diarrhea and right-sided valvular disease is suggestive of carcinoid syndrome::diagnosis"
"What is the best initial test for carcinoid tumor? Urinary 5-HIAA"
"Secretory chronic diarrhea is typically caused by hormone-secreting tumors or persistent enterotoxic infection and presents with a(n) normal::::↑/normal/↓ osmolar gap, no::+/no blood/mucous, no::+/no fecal fat, and no changes after NPO"
"Osmotic chronic diarrhea is typically caused by malabsorption and presents with a(n) ↑::↑/normal/↓ osmolar gap, no::+/no blood/mucous, +::+/no fecal fat, and improvement after NPO"
"Inflammatory chronic diarrhea presents with the presence of blood and mucous in the stool"
"Stool osmotic gap = 290 - 2 x ([Na+]::electrolyte + [K+]::electrolyte)"
"Herniation-like lightning pain and older male is suggestive of osteophyte::diagnosis"
"(-) ANA (sensitive) = rules OUT lupus"
"Anti-CCP > Anti-RF antibodies is suggestive of RA::diagnosis"
"Which antibodies are specific for SLE (+ renal involvement)? Anti-dsDNA"
"anti-Jo (anti-synthetase) antibodies are suggestive of myositis::condition"
"Inflammatory arthritis = 2000-50,000 WBCs"
"Needle-shaped, (-) birefringent monosodium urate crystals is suggestive of Gout::diagnosis"
"What is an appropriate prophylactic regimen to help prevent tumor lysis syndrome? IV fluids and allopurinol or rasburicase"
"Tumor lysis syndrome is most common with treatment of lymphomas and acute lymphoblastic leukemia"
"Staph septic joint = nafcillin::if MSSA or vancomycin::if MRSA"
"What is the recommended treatment for confirmed gonorrhea infection? Ceftriaxone and azithromycin/doxy (for chlamydia)"
"Woman aged 40-50 and morning stiffness/pain > 1 hour that improves with use + systemic symptoms =  rheumatoid arthritis::rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis"
"What is the initial DMARD of choice in patients with moderate-severe rheumatoid arthritis? Methotrexate"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient that presents with a 6-month history of unilateral knee pain? The pain is worse in the evening and with activity. Osteoarthritis"
"Trauma, infection, and crystals are the most common causes of acute mono::mono/polyarthritis in adults"
"What is the triad of Felty syndrome? Rheumatoid Arthritis Splenomegaly Neutropenia"
"Lupus nephritis next step before treatment? Biopsy"
"Newly diagnosed hypertension with BP < 150/90 mm Hg: begin therapy with one::# primary antihypertensive(s) Newly diagnosed hypertension with BP > 150/90 mm Hg: begin therapy with two primary antihypertensive(s)"
"Atopic dermatitis (eczema)::Diagnosis?"
"Contact dermatitis = type IV hypersensitivity::hypersensitivity type"
"Bilateral lower limb edema and purpura around ankle = Stasis dermatitis (secondary to venous insufficiency)"
"Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis is a type III hypersensitivity that is preceded by GAS pharyngitis or impetigo skin infection"
"A pt presents c/o of a rash on his face. Physical exam reveals a red, hot, swollen lesion w/ erythematous streaks suggesting ascending lymphadenitis. He also c/o fever and chills. What is the most likely dx? Erysipelas"
"Oral antifungals are generally required for: Tinea capitis::cutaneous mycosis Onychomycosis::cutaneous mycosis"
"Clotrimazole and Miconazole are commonly used for topical fungal infections such as Tinea"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young child that presents with fever and a petechial rash on the lower extremities with a positive Brudziński's sign? Meningococcal meningitis"
"How does hormone replacement therapy change cardiovascular disease risk in postmenopausal women? Increase::Increase/Decrease"
"How often should routine Pap smear screening be performed between 30-65 y/o? q3y with pap/cytology alone or q5y if co-tested with HPV"
"Bone minimal density (DEXA) ≤ -2.5::value @ hip, spine, or wrist is osteoporosis::condition"
"Do you continue Pap smear screening in a pt w/ a hysterectomy w/ removal of the cervix? No"
"Walking, bathing, dressing, eating, continence, toileting, grooming = ADL::ADL/IADL"
"What is the first step in management of T2DM after the diagnosis is made (A1C > 6.5%)? Life style changes and metformin"
"Sulfonylureas (and meglitinides) bind the ATP-dependent K+ channels on pancreatic β cells, causing release of endogenous insulin"
"What drug class do glyburide, glimepiride, and glipizide belong to? 2nd generation sulfonylureas"
"Sulfonylureas have significant risk of causing hypoglycemia as a possible side effect"
"Thiazolidinediones (glitazones) can cause weight gain"
"Pioglitazone and rosiglitazone are examples of glitazones, also known as thiazolidinediones (TZDs)"
"Exenatide and liraglutide are both examples of GLP-1 agonists"
"What class of diabetic drugs should be added to metformin in a patient with uncontrolled blood glucose that desires weight loss? GLP-1 receptor agonists"
"Acarbose and miglitol inhibit alpha-glucosidase enzymes which decreases the conversion of disaccharides into absorbable monosaccharides"
"Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors (e.g. acarbose, miglitol) are infrequently prescribed due to their ability to cause GI side effects"
"Canagliflozin, dapagliflozin, and empagliflozin are all examples of SGLT2 inhibitors"
"What are the three diabetic microvascular complications? Retinopathy (retinal exam) Nephropathy (U/A for microalbuminuria) Neuropathy (monofilament)"
"What is the safest antidiabetic drug to use in newly diagnosed diabetics? Metformin"
"Sulfonylureas and meglitinides may cause weight gain as a side effect"
"Repaglinide or nateglinide = meglitinide::diabetes drug class"
"Pramlintide is an analog of amylin (islet amyloid polypeptide, IAPP)"
"Pramlintide may cause hypoglycemia as a side effect, especially in the setting of mistimed prandial insulin"
"Amylin analogues (e.g. pramlintide) decrease glucagon secretion"
"A common side effect of pramlintide, an amylin analog, is GI upset"
"GLP-1 agonists can cause pancreatitis::GI as a possible side effect, as well as nausea and vomiting"
"DPP-4 inhibitors can increase risk of upper respiratory tract infection"
"ST elevation is suggestive of STEMI::diagnosis"
"Dual-platelet therapy with aspirin and ADP (P2Y12) - clopidogrel receptor inhibitors is used to prevent coronary stent thrombosis"
"Use tPA if cath lab cannot be reached within 90 minutes"
"Stage 3 Heart Failure = add spironolactone or BiDil"
"ACE inhibitors::Antihypertensive drug class may cause: Cough Angioedema"
"Pain on palpation of sinuses is suggestive of sinusitis::diagnosis"
"Which gram-negative bacteria is associated with malignant otitis externa in diabetics? Pseudomonas aeruginosa"
"Fever and cough with (-) CXR is suggestive of bronchitis::diagnosis Fever and cough with (+) consolidation on CXR is suggestive of pneumonia::diagnosis Fever and cough with cavitation on CXR is suggestive of TB/abscess/fungus::diagnosis"
"Gonorrhea is an STD that presents with urethritis, cervicitis, prostatitis and a(n) creamy purulent::type discharge"
"Pyelonephritis in otherwise stable, non-pregnant patients may be managed with fluoroquinolones"
"Patient presents with post-coital bleeding. Suspected cancer: Cervical cancer"
"Gardnerella vaginalis::Candida albicans/Gardnerella vaginalis does::does/does not change the vaginal pH"
"Motile trophozoites on wet mount = Trichomonas vaginalis::protozoa"
"What are the three drugs that consist of outpatient therapy for PID? Ceftriaxone (or other ceph.) Doxycycline Metronidazole"
"Amenorrhea: absence of menstrual bleeding for 6 or more months when a woman is not pregnant"
"Treatment for stress incontinence may include weight loss::lifestyle modification and pessaries"
"Urgency incontinence is due to an overactive bladder"
"Closed cervical os and no parts on ultrasound is suggestive of complete abortion::diagnosis"
"What is the next step in management for a hemodynamically stable young woman with RLQ pain and a β-hCG level of 1000 IU/L? Transvaginal ultrasound reveals no intrauterine or extrauterine pregnancy. Repeat serum β-hCG in 2 days"
"What is the preferred initial imaging modality for suspected gynecological tumors? Pelvic ultrasound"
"Post-URI constant vertigo, n/v, tinnitus (-) hearing loss = vestibular neuritis::labyrinthitis/vestibular neuritis Post-URI constant vertigo, n/v, tinnitus (+) hearing loss = labyrinthitis::labyrinthitis/vestibular neuritis"
"What types of birth control are contraindicated in women who smoke and over age of 35? Combined estrogen-progesterone contraceptives: OCP, patch, vaginal rings"
"Hormone contraception: estrogen and progestin or progestin alone to provide contraception in various methods, including pills, patches, vaginal rings, injections, and implants"
"What is the primary mechanism of action of progestin only contraceptives (levonorgestrel IUD, progestin-only pill)? Thickens cervical mucus"
"Major GI or brain bleed are contraindications to tPA usage in stroke"
"Stroke ≤ 3 hrs = tPA::drug Stroke > 3 hrs = aspirin::drug"
"Transient ischemic attack A transient episode of neurologic dysfunction caused by focal brain, spinal cord, or retinal ischemia, without acute infarction."
"Greatest risk factor for stroke = hypertension::risk factor"
"Patient presents with bradykinesia, resting tremor, cogwheel rigidity, postural instability, and shuffling gait is suggestive of Parkinson's disease::diagnosis"
"For a first time seizure, order an EEG and CT scan and consider the VITAMINS mnemonic to identify a cause: VascularInfectionTraumaAutoimmuneMetabolicIngestion or wIthdrawalNeoplasmPSych"
"Status epilepticus is seizure activitiy for > 5 - 30 minutes (continuous or intermittent) without regain of conscious, resulting in brain injury and possibly death"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with joint pain/swelling, especially in the wrists and MCP/PIP joints? She also experiences morning stiffness that lasts for > 1 hour. Rheumatoid arthritis"
"Rheumatoid arthritis = symmetric::symmetric/asymmetric inflammatory arthritis with > 3 joints involved (small joints like hands, feet, wrists)"
"Anti-topoisomerase antibodies are seen in diffuse systemic scleroderma::diagnosis"
"Acute scleroderma renal crisis leads to malignant HTN and is treated with ACE Inhibitor::drug"
"Difficulty getting out of chair and painful muscles is suggestive of myositis::diagnosis"
"Gottron's papules and Heliotrope Rash is suggestive of dermatomyositis::condition"
"All patients with polymyositis/dermatomyositis should be screened for occult malignancy"
"What is the most definitive test for diagnosis of polymyositis? Muscle biopsy"
"Young male with lower back pain and morning stiffness that improves with use is suggestive of ankylosing spondylitis::diagnosis"
"Pneumocystis pneumonia is a(n) AIDS-defining illness that presents with a CD4+ count < 200"
"What can be used for prophylaxis against PCP? TMP-SMX or Dapsone::2"
"What drug can be used for toxoplasmosis prophylaxis in HIV patients? TMP-SMX"
"Toxoplasmosis prophylaxis CD4 < 100 and toxo IgG (+) is TMP-SMX::drug Toxoplasmosis treatment is pyrimethamine-sulfadiazine::drug"
"Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex (MAC) is most common in HIV patients::population with CD4 counts < 50"
"Concerning HIV serology, the CD4 cell count represents your current infection risk, while the viral load represents where you are headed"
"AIDS is diagnosed through a CD4 count < 200::cells per μl or AIDS-defining infection::condition"
"Ritonavir::HIV protease inhibitor is typically only used to boost the concentration of other protease inhibitors"
"Coreceptors for Macrophages and T-Cell in HIV infection: 1. Macrophage: CD4 and CCR5::coreceptor 2. T-Cell: CD4 + CXCR4"
"How do you diagnose HIV during the asymptomatic infection (pre-AIDS)? Screen: ELISA Confirm: Western blot"
"Candida albicans that extends from the mouth to the esophagus is known as candidal esophagitis, which is a(n) AIDS-defining illness"
"Acute (primary) HIV infection = diagnosed with HIV RNA (viral load)"
"Acute (primary)::stage HIV infection = flu-like symptoms (low-grade fever, fatigue, sore throat, or myalgias)"
"FTA-ABS test = treponema pallidum (specific)::bacteria, specific or nonspecific"
"Arm close to body and outward rotation (shake hand position) = anterior::anterior/posterior shoulder dislocation"
"A Colles fracture refers to a fracture of the distal radius"
"Fracture of A (Scaphoid)::letter → avascular necrosis and non-union due to retrograde blood supply"
"Fracture of the bone below will cause pain in the anatomical snuffbox region"
"Pt with a \boxer's fracture\\" = fractures of 4/5 metacarpal\""
"Fracture of the hip::location"
"Patient presents with (+) anterior drawer sign: ACL injury"
"Posterior tibial sag (posterior drawer sign): PCL tear::condition"
"Valgus stress and medial space widening is suggestive of MCL sprain::condition Varus stress and lateral space widening is suggestive of LCL sprain::condition"
"Acute \popping\\" sensation followed by \\"clicking\\" during McMurray's test is suggestive of meniscal tear::diagnosis\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female that presents with tenderness to palpation along the 2nd metatarsal bone who is an avid runner w/ a BMI of 18? Stress fracture"
"Loud pop → pain, inability to move and plantarflex the foot: Achilles tendon tear::diagnosis"
"Patient with a \twisted ankle\\" leading to pain"
"A 25-year-old man presents with an inversion injury of his right ankle that occurred during a basketball game. His ankle is swollen, but he is able to bear weight, and has no focal tenderness and no ligament laxity. Ankle sprain::Diagnosis?"
"The anterior talofibular ligament is the most common ankle sprain (\low\\" ankle sprain) and is injured during inversion::inversion/eversion\""
"The Ottawa Ankle Rules is a clinical decision model used to determine whether or not an ankle injury needs a(n) x-ray"
"A stretching or tearing injury of a ligament: Sprain::Sprain/Strain A stretching or tearing injury of a muscle or tendon: Strain::Sprain/Strain"
"Rule out fracture = X-ray (> 2 views perpendicular to each other)::imaging"
"Tearing of placenta off uterus = placental abruption"
"Placental abruption is often due to trauma, cocaine, or hypertension"
"Vaginal birth after C-section = ↑ risk of uterine rupture"
"Uterus rips apart, leading to baby birthed into peritoneum is suggestive of uterine rupture::diagnosis"
"Eclampsia is defined as preeclampsia with seizures"
"Kidney stone = urinalysis::first diagnostic step"
"Cystine stones::kidney stones = typically seen in children (genetic)"
"Chronic kidney disease → ↓ EPO → anemia"
"In chronic renal failure, the combination of elevated PTH and decreased 1,25-(OH)2D3 produces renal osteodystrophy, in which there is increased bone resorption and osteomalacia"
"What laboratory measurement is used to stratify CKD into stages? GFR"
"Chronic kidney disease = goal BP < 130/80"
"What is the next best step in working up iron deficiency anemia in a male or post-menopausal female? Colonoscopy"
"Iron deficiency anemia is most commonly caused by excessive bleeding in young females"
"Treatment of β-thalassemia major involves chronic transfusions, which increases risk for secondary hemochromatosis"
"Thalassemia, when major, is treated with blood transfusions and prophylactic deferoxamine to prevent hemosiderosis"
"Which bacteria is associated with Osteomyelitis in Sickle Cell patients? Salmonella typhi"
"Drugs (dapsone, primaquine, TMP-SMX, nitrofurantoin), infection, DKA, fava beans can precipitate hemolysis in G6PD deficiency"
"The diagnosis of G6PD deficiency is confirmed via enzyme studies, which are performed weeks after a hemolytic episode resolves"
"Heinz bodies and bite cells G6PD deficiency::condition"
"Spherocytes may indicate: hereditary spherocytosis::condition immune-mediated hemolysis (auto / drugs)::condition"
"IgM-mediated hemolytic anemia is commonly associated with Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection and infectious mononucleosis"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria may be treated with eculizumab, which is an antibody that binds and inhibits complement protein C5"
"PIG-A mutation leads to paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria::condition"
"Melanoma treatment is excision with wide margins"
"Erythematous papule with sandpaper-like yellow to brown scale in sun-exposed areas is suggestive of actinic keratosis::diagnosis"
"The classic location for squamous cell carcinoma is the lower lip"
"Keratoacanthoma is a well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma that develops rapidly and regresses spontaneously"
"Which skin cancer presents as a \pink"
"The classic location for basal cell carcinoma is the upper lip"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that notices multiple, pruritic hypopigmented skin lesions on the face and trunk after beginning summer camp? Tinea versicolor (pityriasis versicolor)"
"Diagnosis of Tinea versicolor is confirmed with KOH preparation, which demonstrates a classic \spaghetti and meatballs\\" appearance\""
"What is the cause of vitiligo? Autoimmune destruction of melanocytes"
"Deficiency of the enzyme tyrosinase causes albinism"
"Abnormal melanocyte migration and white forelock on the scalp is suggestive of piebaldism::diagnosis"
"Deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase causes phenylketonuria (PKU)"
"Musty/mousy body odor and mental retardation and fair complexion = PKU"
"Angiofibromas (face) Ash-leaf spots (hypopigmented on Wood's lamp) Shagreen patches (common on low back) Afebrile seizures = Tuberous sclerosis::diagnosis"
"Heat intolerance, tachycardia and ↑ reflexes is suggestive of hyperthyroidism::condition"
"What RAIU scan finding is seen in Graves disease? Diffuse uptake"
"Thyroiditis = hyperthyroidism"
"Initially, Hashimoto thyroiditis presents as hyperthyroidism::hypo/hyperthyroidism"
"The most common cause of hypothyroidism that is non-iatrogenic = Hashimoto thyroiditis"
"Which thyroid imbalance presents with decreased heat production (cold intolerance)? Hypothyroidism"
"Screening test for thyroid disorders = TSH::test"
"A pt w/ hypothyroidism presents w/ hypothermia, hypotension, and coma. You suspect myxedema coma. What is the treatment? Warmed IVF and warming blankets and IV T4"
"Exophthalmos (proptosis) is most likely Graves disease::condition"
"Pretibial myxedema is seen in Graves disease::condition"
"Diffuse goiter and diffuse radioactive iodine uptake = Graves disease"
"Cold intolerance, lethargy and depression is most likely hypothyroidism::condition"
"Thyroid papillary carcinoma = Orphan Annie eye \ground-glass\\" appearance nuclei with nuclear grooves and psammoma bodies\""
"MEN 2A and 2B are associated with medullary thyroid carcinoma::thyroid"
"CKD = hyperkalemia"
"Flat lesion < 1 cm with defined borders = macule::lesion type"
"Elevated solid lesion < 1 cm = papule::lesion type"
"Small fluid-containing blister < 1 cm = vesicle::lesion type"
"Large fluid-containing blister > 1 cm = bulla::lesion type"
"Vesicle containing pus = pustule::lesion type"
"Palpable subcutaneous lesion > 1 cm = nodule::lesion type"
"Lentigo maligna melanoma::Melanoma subtype = found on chronically sun damaged skin in old people (60-70)"
"The acral lentiginous subtype of melanoma is more common in dark-skinned individuals"
"Melanoma on palms or soles = acral lentiginous melanoma::melanoma subtype"
"Nodular melanoma = poor::good/poor prognosis due to vertical growth"
"Microscopic hematuria: the presence of ≥ 3::#? RBCs per HPF"
"Heavy exercise can lead to transient microscopic hematuria"
"Symptom/sign of what? Acanthosis nigricans/T2DM /Insulin resistance"
"Orlistat MOA : intestinal lipase inhibitor Orlistat clinical use: weight loss"
"Neuropathic pain: pain caused by damage or dysfunction of a nerve or of the nervous system"
"Neuropathic pain (periph. neuropathy / postherpetic neuralgia) = gabapentin::antiepileptic"
"Tramadol is a very weak μ-opioid receptor agonist that also inhibits 5-HT and norepinephrine reuptake"
"What change in bowel movement is associated with activation of μ-opioid receptors? Constipation"
"Osteoporosis is defined as a(n) bone mineral density at least 2.5 standard deviations below normal"
"Poor mineralization of bones leads to osteomalacia/rickets::condition"
"Bisphosphonates::drug class = corrosive esophagitis (remain upright 30 mins)"
"Bisphosphonates::drug class = osteonecrosis of the jaw"
"Which selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) is preferred for treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis? Raloxifene"
"Osteoporosis and reduce risk of vertebral fractures = nasal calcitonin::drug"
"Teriparatide is a(n) PTH analog used to treat severe osteoporosis when given in pulsatile fashion by increasing activity of osteoblasts → increase bone density"
"Denosumab is a monoclonal antibody against RANKL, useful in the treatment of osteoporosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with pitting edema and leg pain that is worse in the evening accompanied by varicose veins and skin ulceration? Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI)"
"Non-pharmacological treatments for venous insufficiency include leg elevation and compression leg stockings"
"Edema may be caused by increased::increased/decreased capillary pressure (Pc)"
"Nephrotic syndrome results in hypoalbuminemia, which manifests as pitting edema"
"What is the underlying cause of edema in patients with cirrhosis? Hypoalbuminemia (synthetic dysfunction)"
"Sleep apnea is associated with pulmonary hypertension due to nocturnal hypoxia"
"What is the recommended amount of daily folic acid to reduce the risk of neural tube defects in low-risk pregnancies? 400-800 ug"
"Pale/boggy mucosa of nasal turbinates, polyps, cobblestoning? Allergic rhinitis"
"Adenovirus commonly causes viral conjunctivitis of the eye."
"What are the \Five A's\\" in discussing tobacco use and cessation? Ask"
"Bupropion::Antidepressant = smoking cessation"
"Varenicline is a(n) nicotinic receptor partial agonist used for smoking cessation"
"↑ Insulin/β-agonist/alkalosis = hypokalemia::hyperkalemia/hypokalemia"
"Diuretics/vomiting/diarrhea = hypokalemia::hyperkalemia/hypokalemia"
"Hypokalemia will not correct until low Mg2+ is corrected"
"Most common cause of hypercalcemia is 1° hyperparathyroidism::condition"
"In secondary hyperparathyroidism, PTH levels are elevated secondary to hypocalcemia (or hyperphosphatemia)::electrolyte imbalances in chronic renal disease"
"Tertiary hyperparathyroidism is due to chronic renal failure where the parathyroid becomes autonomous and secretes PTH all day, causing chronic hyperparathyroidism"
"Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia = mild hypercalcemia and hypocalciuria with normal/increased PTH levels"
"PTH-related protein (PTHrP)::protein = ↑ Ca2+ during some malignancies"
"Euvolemic hyponatremia is suggestive of SIADH::condition"
"↓ [Na] and ↑↑ proteins/lipids = pseudohyponatremia"
"QTc > 500 ms is at increased risk for dangerous dysrhythmias"
"The unpleasant awareness of one's own heartbeat that can feel like a fluttering or pounding in the chest: Palpitations"
"\Elastic skin"
"Comma-shaped gram (-) rod, grows at 42°C = Campylobacter jejuni::bug"
"In addition to ingesting undercooked poultry, interacting with household pets can predipose to Campylobacter"
"History of eczema/psoriasis and chronic scratching::activity = lichen simplex chronicus"
"Painful/tender thyroid is seen with subacute (De Quervain) thyroiditis::condition"
"Subacute granulomatous thyroiditis (de Quervain) may initially present with hyperthyroidism::hyper/hypo/eu, which is then followed by euthyroidism::hyper/hypo/eu and often ends with hypothyroidism::hyper/hypo/eu"
"Ovarian mass and hyperthyroidism is struma ovarii (teratoma)::condition"
"Factor V Leiden = ↑ risk of thrombosis::bleeding/thrombosis"
"Multiparous, post-menopausal woman and white/green/bloody nipple discharge + mass below nipple = mammary duct ectasia"
"Smoking::Condition is associated with ↑ risk of periductal mastitis"
"Granuloma inguinale = painless Chancroid = painful Chancre = painless"
"How should patients with hypothyroidism have their meds adjusted during pregnancy? Increased by 30% (immediately)"
"Why are NSAIDs contraindicated in heart failure? ↓ Renal perfusion"
"Infant with excessive consumption of cow's milk (>24 ounces per day). What should you suspect? Iron deficiency anemia"
"\tearing\\" pain during defecation and blood on toilet paper is suggestive of anal fissure::diagnosis\""
"One adverse effect associated with selective α1 adrenergic antagonists is orthostatic hypotension"
"What is the best initial analgesic therapy for osteoarthritis? NSAIDs (e.g. ibuprofen)"
"Coadministration of ACE inhibitors with NSAIDs can precipitate acute kidney injury"
"Hemo::Pneumo/Hemothorax = dullness on percussion Pneumo::Pneumo/Hemothorax = hyperresonance on percussion"
"Preeclampsia without severe features = deliver at 37 weeks Preeclampsia with severe features = deliver at 34 weeks"
"What microscopy finding is characteristic of bacterial vaginosis (Gardnerella infection)? Clue cells (epithelial cells coated with bacteria)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient with a history of steroid use that presents with progressive groin, thigh, or buttock pain for the past six weeks? The pain is worst with abduction and internal rotation. Avascular necrosis (osteonecrosis)"
"Alcohol should be abstained for 24 hours before a fasting lipid panel"
"Testicular torsion::Epididymitis/Testicular torsion = acute onset (hours) Epididymitis::Epididymitis/Testicular torsion = slower onset (days)"
"Aortic stenosis may present with syncope, angina, and dyspnea on exertion"
"A pt is found to have microcytic anemia after his MCV is found to be < 80. What is the most appropriate next step in workup regardless of etiology? Iron studies (ferritin)"
"Testicular torsion = twisting of the spermatic cord due to rotation of the testicle within the scrotum"
"ACE inhibitors slow the progression of diabetic nephropathy"
"Chorioamnionitis::Diagnosis"
"Bilateral, simple renal cysts associated with cerebral aneurysms is suggestive of ADPKD::condition"
"ADPKD = ultrasound::imaging modality"
"Duodenal ulcers located in the posterior::anterior/posterior duodenum may rupture, leading to bleeding from the gastroduodenal artery"
"Elderly white female with muscle aches in shoulders and hips with rapid response to low-dose steroids is suggestive of polymyalgia rheumatica::condition (associated with giant cell arteritis::vasculitis)"
"Perimysial inflammation is seen in dermatomyositis::condition Endomysial inflammation is seen in polymyositis::condition"
"Bilateral proximal muscle weakness and rash (heliotrope, Shawl sign, malar, Gottron sign) is suggestive of dermatomyositis::condition"
"Head-Thrust Test: The examiner turns the patient's head rapidly towards the affected side → positive if the patient is unable to maintain visual fixation = peripheral::central/peripheral cause of vertigo"
"Dilated bronchi and recurrent infections is suggestive of bronchiectasis::condition"
"Chronic Histoplasmosis::fungal infection can look similar to TB, with cavitary lesions in the upper lobes of the lungs and hilar lymphadenopathy"
"Angioinvasive aspergillosis occurs due to Aspergillus fumigatus infection in the immuno-compromised"
"Coccidioidomycosis::Which fungus is found in the Southwestern United States"
"Bell's palsy involves a(n) peripheral::central/peripheral lesion of the facial n. (VII)"
"Elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is associated with neural tube defects, abdominal wall defects, and multiple gestation"
"Which blistering skin disorder may involve the mucosal lesions (e.g. mouth)? Pemphigus vulgaris::Pemphigus vulgaris/Bullous pemphigoid"
"Adult with pruritic erythematous rash on flexor surfaces is suggestive of atopic dermatitis (eczema)::condition"
"Localized pruritic erythematous rash after contact/ingestion of allergen is most likely contact dermatitis::condition"
"Maculopapular rash following drug administration is a(n) fixed drug eruption::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Erythema multiforme"
"Child presents with fever that later develops red rash on the face that spreads to the body: Erythema infectiosum (Fifth disease)"
"Multiple small pustules localized to hair follicles on any body surface? Folliculitis"
"Strep. pharyngitis::infection = guttate psoriasis (may appear weeks later)"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Keratosis pilaris"
"Erythematous papules post-heat exposure = miliaria rubra"
"What is the secondary lesion? Scale"
"Itchy, coin-shaped, well-demarcated erythematous plaques associated with dry skin is characteristic of nummular eczema::condition"
"Well-demarcated, erythematous lesions and silvery-white scaling plaques on extensor surfaces= psoriasis::diagnosis"
"Auspitz sign (pinpoint bleeding due to scale sloughing) is suggestive of psoriasis::condition"
"High fever and diffuse macular rash several days later = roseola (HHV-6)::infection"
"Erythematous, non-itchy greasy plaques/scales including nasolabial folds is characteristic of seborrheic dermatitis::condition"
"Pruritic, erythematous, scaly plaques with central clearing = tinea corporis (dermatophytes)::infection"
"What is the likely diagnosis? urticaria"
"Which blistering skin disorder presents as itchy papules/vesicles that are grouped on extensor surfaces (e.g. knees, elbows)? Dermatitis herpetiformis"
"Rash on sun-exposed face and arms with joint pains is suggestive of lupus::diagnosis"
"Stage 1 of Lyme disease involves erythema-migrans aka a \Bull's eye\\" rash and flu-like symptoms\""
"Nonblanching petechiae and palpable purpura = neisseria meningitidis::bacteria"
"Pruritic cutaneous plaques and patches appear that develop brownish nodules = mycosis fungoides::diagnosis, it's a lymphoma"
"Rash starting on palms/soles of feet moving towards trunk along with flu-like symptoms and history of outdoor activities is suggestive of rocky mountain spotted fever::condition"
"Preceding sore throat → sandpaper skin that eventually desquamates (peels), strawberry tongue and circumoral pallor is suggestive of Scarlet fever::diagnosis"
"Secondary syphilis is a stage of syphilis that involves generalized lymphadenopathy, diffuse maculopapular rash that includes the palms and soles, and condyloma latum."
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with painful erythema, fever, and superficial flaccid bullae with a positive Nikolsky sign? Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome"
"Which blistering skin disorder is characterized by fever and painful, erythematous macules that turn into bullae/vesicles with (+) Nikolsky's sign? Stevens-Johnson syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a hemodynamically unstable patient that presents with fever, vomiting, and a diffuse, confluent maculopapular rash on the trunk and extremities? The patient recently had anterior packing for nosebleed or was using tampons. Toxic shock syndrome"
"1- to 3-mm, skin-colored, raised, flat-topped papules on trunk, flexor surfaces of extremities, dorsal hands, or genitalia = lichen nitidus"
"Red or orange follicular papules on fingers, elbows, knees, trunk, or scalp characterized by “skip areas” of normal skin = pityriasis rubra pilaris"
"Rubella (German measles) is characterized by a prodrome of mild fever and posterior auricular::location lymphadenopathy followed by a maculopapular rash that spreads in a(n) cephalocaudal pattern"
"Measles virus (rubeola) is characterized by a prodrome of cough, coryza, conjunctivitis, and koplik spots, followed by a maculopapular rash that spreads in a(n) cephalocaudal pattern"
"Diagnosis? De Quervain's tenosynovitis"
"What is the next step in management for a woman that presents with a thin, white plaque suspicious for lichen sclerosus (itchy)? Vulvar punch biopsy"
"Thiazide diuretics::Diuretic class may cause: ↑ Glucose (hyperglycemia) ↑ Lipids (hyperlipidemia) ↑ Uric acid (hyperuricemia) ↑ Ca2+ (hypercalcemia)"
"Dysmenorrhea, menorrhagia and soft/boggy uterus is suggestive of adenomyosis::condition"
"What are recommendations for AAA screening? Men 65-75 who have ever smoked"
"What is the most common cause of hypercalcemia, and what is the treatment? Primary hyperparathyroidism; most often treated with surgery"
"For dental caries prevention, what is applied to the primary teeth of all infants and children starting at the age of primary tooth eruption: Fluoride varnish"
"Ketoacidosis and hypoglycemia may indicate alcoholic ketoacidosis::condition"
"Asthma symptoms that fail to respond to typical asthma therapy is suggestive of vocal cord dysfunction::diagnosis"
"Telangiectasias, recurrent epistaxis and visceral AVMs is suggestive of Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult patient that presents with the foot rash below? The lesions are painful with walking and standing. Plantar warts (due to HPV infection)"
"What is the general term for this? An abscess is a localized collection of pus"
"These toes show significant gangrene::process, likely due to ischemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Herpes simplex"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese woman with an erythematous rash involving the skin folds underneath her breasts? Intertrigo (most commonly due to Candida)"
"Inflammation of subcutaneous fat → painful, erythematous nodules on the shins is suggestive of erythema nodosum::condition"
"blistering cutaneous photosensitivity is suggestive of porphyria cutanea tarda::condition"
"OSA can lead to secondary hypertension"
"Knocked out permanent teeth should be rinsed gently with normal saline reimplanted immediately and transported in cold milk/saliva::medium"
"Rubber band ligation is only used for internal::internal/external hemorrhoids"
"Schistosoma haematobium infection is associated with squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder in Middle eastern males"
"Young man with vertebral fusion (bamboo spine) causing back pain and anterior uveitis is suggestive of ankylosing spondylitis::condition"
"- FFP and Vitamin K reverses warfarin::heparin/warfarin overdose - Protamine reverses heparin::heparin/warfarin overdose"
"Osgood-Schlatter disease presents with focal pain and swelling at the tibial tuberosity, secondary to traction apophysitis of the tibial tubercle"
"Noncaseating granulomas in the lung and hilar nodes may indicate: Sarcoidosis Berylliosis::Two conditions"
"Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia is tachycardia with narrow QRS complexes with absent P waves on ECG"
"Posterior urethral valves or vesicoureteral reflux = voiding cystourethogram::diagnostic tool"
"Which type of primary testicular tumor is the most aggressive, commonly metastasizing to the lungs or brain? Choriocarcinoma"
"First trimester pregnancy loss is largely fetal::maternal/fetal in origin and most commonly caused by autosomal trisomy"
"What is the recommended tetanus prophylaxis in an adult that suffers a severe wound after stepping on rusty nails? He is uncertain of his vaccination history. Tetanus toxoid-containing vaccine and tetanus immune globulin"
"Reactive airway dysfunction syndrome (RADS) is caused by a single-known inhalation exposure to chemical irritants leading to asthma-like symptoms. The predominant cell responsible for airway infiltration are neutrophils::cells"
"Osteomyelitis in adults = contiguous::hematogenous/contiguous spread Osteomyelitis in kids = hematogenous::hematogenous/contiguous spread"
"If someone has: - bloody diarrhea - diarrhea lasting more than 3-7 days - immunocompromised - evidence of systemic disease or severe dehydration Get bacterial stool cultures::next step"
"What is the normal amount of weight gain during pregnancy for a woman with normal BMI? 25 - 35 lbs total"
"Patients with Crohn disease have increased risk for kidney stones due to increased absorption of oxalate"
"A pt presents c/o of a skin lesion on his face. Physical exam reveals an erythematous pigmented lesion with a sandpaper-like yellow-brown scaly appearance. The pt states that he spends a lot of time in the sun working in construction. You suspect actinic keratosis. What is the first-line treatment? Cryosurgery (esp. if it is a small lesion) Multiple lesions 5-FU, imiquimod, photodynamic therapy"
"A(n) complete hydatidiform mole is characterized by 46::46/69 chromosomes"
"Ezetimibe = cholesterol absorption inhibitor::drug class Cholestyramine, colestipol, and colesevelam = bile acid resins::drug class"
"Corneal abrasions 2° to contact lens use = Pseudomonas::infection treated with ciprofloxacin eye drops"
"A pt w/ a history of ulcerative colitis presents c/o of joint pain. History reveals a symmetric, bilateral, non-deforming arthritis affecting the fingers and lower back. What is the most likely dx? Enteropathic Arthritis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female that presents with foot pain between the toes with a clicking sensation when the 3rd/4th metatarsal heads are squeezed together? The patient also experiences numbness and paresthesias radiating to the toes proximal to the pain. Morton neuroma"
"All adult patients who are smokers::habit should receive the pneumococcal vaccine"
"Reactive artritis triad includes: Conjunctivitis Urethritis Arthritis"
"Subareolar mass and nipple retraction in smokers is suggestive of periductal mastitis::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Warfarin-induced skin necrosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Seborrheic keratoses"
"Placental abruption typically presents with a(n) abrupt onset of painful::painless/painful vaginal bleeding in the third trimester"
"Which uterotonic is contraindicated in patients with hypertension or preeclampsia? Methylergonovine (methergine)"
"What type of Strep. pyogenes infection precipitates rheumatic fever? Pharyngitis"
"Treatment of GAS with penicilin will prevent rheumatic fever but not PSGN"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Described as groups of flesh-colored to erythematous papules that coalesce to form an annular plaque on a distal extremity Granuloma annulare"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with persistent ear discharge and conductive hearing loss, despite antibiotic treatment, with granulation tissue and skin debris visible on otoscopic exam? Cholesteatoma"
"Invasive GBS in a prior baby means that the mother should be given GBS prophylaxis (penicillin) in every subsequent pregnancy"
"What is the first-line treatment for primary dysmenorrhea? NSAIDs and/or OCPs"
"Diagnosis of the helminth Enterobius vermicularis (pinworm) is made via the scotch tape test"
"The presence of casts in the urine indicates that hematuria/pyuria is of glomerular or renal tubular origin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with palpitations, tachycardia, and the ECG below? Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome"
"When a patient has a COPD exacerbation (↓SpO2 or ↑sputum/cough), treat with the following regimen: Antibiotics (nebulized) Bronchodilators Corticosteroids (IV methylprednisolone) Oxygen"
"What is the target LDL goal for someone with CHD or a CHD equivalent (e.g. T2DM)? < 100"
"Failure of an ovarian follicle to rupture may result in follicular cysts"
"Features of a low-risk solitary pulmonary nodule include size ≤ 0.8 cm, age < 40, and smoking cessation for > 15 years (or never smoked)"
"Suspected constitutional growth delay = bone age::next test"
"Patient presents with a strawberry tongue: Scarlet fever OR Kawasaki disease::Two answers"
"What test distinguishes between an underexcretor or overproducer in gout? 24 hour urine collection"
"The main danger associated with creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels greater than 20,000 U/L is acute tubular necrosis due to myoglobinuria"
"Labetalol = α/β-blocker::drug class"
"New onset enuresis is managed with ruling out organic causes::next step before treatment is started"
"Retraction of the fetal head into the perineum after delivery (e.g. turtle sign) is suggestive of what obstetric complication? Shoulder dystocia"
"First step in person with cholangitis with unstable vitals? IV fluids"
"Genetic issues = early::early/late pregnancy loss Anatomical issues = late::early/late pregnancy loss"
"What is the appropriate treatment for superficial thrombophlebitis? Mild analgesic"
"Palpation of a tender \cord\\" = superficial::deep/superficial vein thrombosis\""
"Anti-mitochondrial antibodies are suggestive of 1° biliary cirrhosis::condition"
"Atrial fibrillation should be treated with anticoagulation then cardioversion"
"Suspected onychomycosis is managed with KOH prep::next step"
"(+) VUR grades 1-3 in children < 5 y.o. is managed with prophylatic antibiotics::next step"
"Ascites with SAAG >::> or < 1.1 = portal hypertension"
"The Babinski sign signifies a lesion affecting the upper::upper/lower motor neurons of the corticospinal tract::tract"
"Mild asthma is defined as: - Use of short acting bronchodilator < 2X / week::frequency - Nocturnal awakenings < 2X / month::frequency - Use of < 2 inhalers / year"
"Chronic otitis media with effusion is managed with tympanostomy tube::treatment"
"PDE-5 inhibitors = contraindicated with nitrates::drug class"
"Which fluid replacement therapeutic is often the standard maintenance fluid? D5 1/2 normal saline with the 4/2/1 (hourly) 100/50/20 rule (daily) rule"
"Before starting PPIs, what treatment is offered for people with GERD? Lifestyle modifications"
"Acute diverticulitis is managed with antibiotics::treatment"
"Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) should be considered for asymptomatic patients with ≥ ≥ 80% stenosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman that presents with hand numbness and weakness in the thumb/index finger? Carpal tunnel syndrome"
"TCAs may be used to treat neuropathic::type pain"
"Resistant hypertension, hypokalemia and abdominal bruit is suggestive of renal artery stenosis::diagnosis"
"C"
"Chronic otitis externa = use alcohol / acetic acid drops as preventive care to keep ear dry"
"High-risk HPV (oncogenic virus) is associated with adenocarcinoma of the cervix and squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva, vagina, anus, and cervix"
"Bladder outlet obstruction (e.g. BPH) → 50 mL::post-void residual volume"
"What lifestyle modification reduces hypertension the most? Weight loss"
"Painful/tender thyroid with decreased iodine uptake is seen in subacute (De Quervain) thyroiditis::condition"
"Exogenous thyroid hormone = low thyroglobulin Thyroiditis = high thyroglobulin"
"Inspiratory stridor = croup::croup/bronchiolitis"
"Flu-like symptoms followed by sudden thoracic/upper abdominal pain 2/2 coxsackievirus is suggestive of pleurodynia::diagnosis"
"Hypocapnia (↓ pCO2) = cerebral vasoconstriction::dilation/constriction Hypoxia (pO2 < 50 mmHg) = cerebral vasodilation"
"Hypertension and migraine prophylaxis = β-blockers (e.g. propranolol)"
"Constipation is managed with lifestyle changes (high fiber diet, fluid, exercise)::first line treatment"
"Cough variant asthma = a form of asthma in which the predominant symptom is chronic, dry cough"
"Why can NSAIDs and ACE-Inhibitors cause edema? Renal function impairment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly woman with three months of neck, shoulder, and hip pain, morning stiffness, as well as malaise and weight loss? ESR is elevated and creatine kinase is normal. Polymyalgia rheumatica"
"Lactose intolerance can develop after gastroenteritis. Why? Damage to villi, which contain lactase"
"Before doing TSH level / ultrasound to evaluate thyroid nodule, what do you do? H&P"
"What is the best initial therapy for hyperlipidemia? Lifestyle modification (diet, exercise)"
"Pain on wrist extension = lateral::medial/lateral epicondylitis Pain on wrist flexion = medial::medial/lateral epicondylitis"
"Epicondylitis treatment begins with conservative::conservative/surgery"
"What is the recommended screening protocol for abdominal aortic aneurysm? One-time abdominal ultrasound for men who have ever smoked aged 65-75 years"
"Cotton-wool spots are funduscopic findings of hypertensive retinopathy that result from infarctions::process of the nerve fiber layer in the retina"
"Placental sulfatase deficiency is a risk factor for post-term delivery"
"Renal pelvis and ureter dilation::constriction/dilation during pregnancy occurs due to compression by the uterus and ovarian vein"
"Why does lactation not occur during pregnancy, even though prolactin levels are increasing? Progesterone and estrogen downregulate prolactin receptors on the breast"
"Bloody show describes the passage of a small amount of blood or blood-tinged mucus through the vagina near the end of pregnancy"
"Oral contraceptives are contraindicated in women > 35 that use tobacco"
"When a patient comes in with galactorrhea and amenorrhea, you should first screen her prolactin level and order a(n) MRI if it's elevated"
"How do you treat life-threatening uterine hemorrhage? Place two large bore IVs Administer IV fluid bolus to stabilize blood pressure Adminster IV estrogen to shut off uterine bleeding Type and cross the patient If hemoglobin falls below 7::#?, administer transfusions"
"Abnormal uterine bleeding is a diagnosis of exclusion and is most commonly secondary to anovulation"
"How do you treat non-hemorrhagic abnormal uterine bleeding? First-line: OCPs and NSAIDs Second-line: endometrial ablation or elective TAH"
"Patient presents with unilateral Cafe-au-lait spots, polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, precocious puberty, and multiple endocrine abnormalities. Diagnosis? McCune-Albright syndrome"
"Which etiology of peripheral precocious pubery is an estrogen-producing tumor? Granulosa cell tumor"
"Etonogestrel implants (Nexplanon/Implanon) are forms of LARCs that are matchstick-sized rods implanted under the skin"
"If egg fertilization occurs post-tubal ligation, there's a very high risk of ectopic pregnancy"
"Combined estrogen-progesterone contraceptive options include daily pills, weekly patches, and monthly rings"
"The biggest problem with mini-pills is that they require daily compliance down to the hour"
"The non-structural causes of vaginal bleeding can be remembered with the mnemonic, COEIN: Coagulopathy Ovulatory dysfunction Endometrial problems (endometriosis) Iatrogenic (IUD) Not yet classified"
"What acid-base changes are seen in pregnancy? Chronic respiratory alkalosis"
"How does the heart change during pregnancy? ↑::↑/↓ Heart rate and ↑::↑/↓ stroke volume, resulting in increased::increased/decreased cardiac output"
"How do you diagnose leiomyoma/adenomyosis? Pelvic ultrasound"
"Endometrial polyps are surgically::surgically/medically removed"
"How does renal basement permeability change in pregnancy? Increase::Increase/Decrease"
"How much weight should a woman gain during pregnancy? Underweight: BMI < 18.5: +1 lb/week Normal: BMI 18.5-25: +0.75 lb/week Overweight: BMI = 25-30: +0.5 lb/week Morbidly obese: BMI > 30: +0.25 lb/week"
"Patient presents with pruritic black lesions in her genitals Suspected cancer: vulvar/vaginal cancer"
"Risk of endometrial cancer increases::↑/↓ with exposure to estrogen and decreases::↑/↓ with exposure to progesterone"
"Anovulation is the most potent risk factor for endometrial cancer due to unopposed estrogen and decreased progesterone"
"Nulliparity is associated with increased::increased/decreased risk of endometrial cancer"
"Diagnosis of endometrial carcinoma requires biopsy"
"A patient presents with uterine bleeding and a precancerous endometrial biopsy. Suspected diagnosis: Endometrial hyperplasia Treatment: High-dose progesterone"
"A patient presents with uterine bleeding and a cancerous endometrial biopsy. Suspected diagnosis: Adenocarcinoma Treatment: TAH and BSO"
"If a reproductive age female presents with an adnexal mass, it is likely a(n) cyst"
"If a postmenopausal woman presents with an adnexal mass, it is likely a(n) epithelial tumor"
"If a premenstrual female presents with an adnexal mass, it is likely a(n) germ cell tumor"
"What is the initial chief complaint of people with ovarian torsion? Completely spontaneous unilateral abdominal pain"
"Diagnosis of ovarian torsion is best done with diagnostic laparoscopy"
"Ultrasound description of a simple cyst: adnexal mass w/ smooth, small cyst w/o septations (unilocular) Ultrasound description of a complex cyst: adnexal mass w/ irregular large cysts w/ septation & loculated fluid (multilocular)"
"What is the next best step in management of a premenopausal patient with a complex cyst on TVUS? Biopsy"
"Teratomas are usually benign::benign or malignant in women"
"The best initial test for ovarian cancer after palpating for adnexal mass is always transvaginal ultrasound"
"What type of ovarian cancer would you suspect in a teenage girl with asymptomatic mass? Germ cell cancer"
"What is the treatment for germ cell cancer in a teenage female? Unilateral salpingo-oophorectomy"
"What type of ovarian cancer would you expect in a postmenopausal female with SBO, renal failure, and ascites? Epithelial cell cancer"
"What is the treatment for epithelial cell cancer (post-menopausal)? TAH and BSO and paclitaxel chemotherapy"
"Dysgerminomas can be monitored with LDH"
"Endodermal sinus tumor (yolk sac) can be monitored with AFP"
"Choriocarcinoma can be monitored with β-hCG"
"Which type of ovarian cancer subtype is associated with ovulation in its pathogenesis? Surface epithelial cancer"
"Pregnancies and OCPs decrease::increase/decrease the risk of surface epithelial cancer of ovaries"
"What are the two genetic conditions associated with increased risk of surface epithelial cell tumors? BRCA1/2 Lynch syndrome"
"What is the protocol for women with BRCA1/2 genes for preventing ovarian cancer? Screen annually with TVUS and CA-125"
"Once the BRCA 1/2 patient is at least 35 years old or is done having kids, you can perform TAH and BSO"
"How do you evacuate the uterus medically in the first trimester? Misoprostol"
"When is suction curettage indicated for spontaneous abortion? Hemodynamically unstable (e.g. hypotensive, tachycardic) patients with anemia from acute blood loss Note: It is NOT used for unstable ectopic pregnancy (surgical exploration)"
"Following uterine evacuation of a spontaneous abortion, all Rh- mothers with Rh+ father/fetus need to be given Rhogam within 72 hours::how many hours?"
"What is the most common cause of fetal demise? Idiopathic"
"What is the potential complication of intrauterine fetal demise that is retained in utero for several weeks? Coagulopathy (e.g. DIC)"
"What is the cause of hyperreflexia in the setting of a hydatidiform mole? Hyperthyroidism from elevated β-hCG"
"How do you manage patients with itchy vulvar lesions to rule out cancer? Biopsy"
"Which vulvar cancer presents as red and itchy? Paget's disease"
"Which cancer presents as a \grape-like mass\\" in the vagina? Sarcoma botyroides (type of vaginal cancer)\""
"What is the general treatment for a choriocarcinoma? Chemotherapy MAC (Methotrexate, Actinomycin D, Cyclophosphamide with possible surgery)"
"How do you treat ectopic pregnancy? Unruptured, early: methotrexate::medical management Unruptured, advanced: salpingostomy Ruptured: salpingectomy"
"What is the next step in management of a positive first-trimester combined test or second-trimester quadruple screen? Chorionic villus sampling (10-13 weeks) or amniocentesis (15-20 weeks)"
"Which pregnancies require weekly antepartum fetal surveillance starting at 32 weeks? Pregnancies with maternal comorbidities or fetal conditions"
"A nonstress test assesses the fetal well-being by measuring the heart for both accelerations and variability"
"An acceleration in the nonstress test of a fetus > 32 weeks is considered adequate if there is a(n) 15 bpm rise in HR sustained for 15 seconds, occurring twice in 20 minutes"
"What is the next best step in working up a fetus with a non-reactive NST? Repeat NST after vibroacoustic stimulation"
"Biophysical profile is similar to APGAR but in utero, and uses information from NST and ultrasound"
"What is management of a biophysical profile of 8? Normal (8-10) Can repeat in a week"
"The onset to nadir in a variable deceleration must be <30 seconds"
"Which is the only deceleration on contraction stress testing (CST) that's worrisome? Late deceleration"
"The onset to nadir in an early or late deceleration must be >30 seconds"
"What is a normal baseline heart rate and moderate baseline variability, as determined by electronic fetal monitoring? Heart rate: 110-160 bpm Variability: 5-25 bpm fluctuations from baseline"
"What is considered the normal range of fetal heart rate? 110-160/min"
"At what β-hCG level can a transvaginal ultrasound detect a fetus? >1500 IU/L"
"When is an increased AFP in pregnancy normal? Multiple gestation"
"The risk factors associated with placenta previa can be remembered with the mnemonic MMAP: Multiparity Multiple gestations Advanced maternal age Previous placenta previa"
"Where is pain located in abruptio placentae? Abdomen OR back"
"- Isoimmunization occurs when a(n) RhD-::RhD? mom has a(n) RhD+::RhD? baby - On the first exposure she develops IgM::IgM/IgG that does NOT::does/does NOT cross the placenta, leading to nothing; on the subsequent exposure she develops IgG::IgM/IgG that does::does/does NOT crosses the placenta leading to fetal anemia and hydrops"
"In identifying fetal risk for anemia, what titer of atypical antibodies in the mother's circulation is concerning? ≥ 1:8"
"What is the next best step in working up/managing an infant with fetal anemia, as determined by transcranial doppler? Gestational age < 32 weeks: PUBS for transfusion Gestational age > 32 weeks: deliver"
"Give Rh-Ab (+) moms Rhogam? F::T/F"
"To prevent isoimmunization, Rhogam-D is given to Rh-Ag-negative, Rh-Ab-negative moms at 28 weeks and within 72 hours of delivery"
"What test is used to determine the dose of anti-D immune globulin after a procedure or delivery (or if a higher dose is needed)? Kleihauer-Betke test"
"What causes RUQ pain in HELLP syndrome? Distension of the hepatic (Glisson's) capsule"
"What treatment for preeclampsia has both anti-HTN and anti-epileptic properties? Magnesium"
"What do you administer to reverse magnesium's toxicity? IV calcium gluconate"
"What are target glucose values for pregnant diabetics? Fasting blood sugar: < 95 mg/dL 1-hour post-meal: < 140 mg/dL 2-hour post-meal: < 120 mg/dL"
"What are the exceptions to universal screening of GBS? 1. History of GBS bacteriuria at any point during current pregnancy 2. Invasive early-onset GBS disease in a prior child Why: These patients are empirically treated (intrapartum PCN)"
"What kind of fetal monitoring is contraindicated during labor in mothers with hepatitis C? Fetal scalp electrodes Can promote the mixing of fetal and maternal blood"
"What is management of an infant whose mother has HIV with viral load >1,000 copies/mL? Multi-drug ART Zidovidine should be administered to the neonate for >6 weeks"
"What is management of an infant whose mother has HIV with viral load <1,000 copies/mL? Zidovudine alone (immediately after delivery)"
"Patients with intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy typically present with what derm symptom? Pruritis"
"Ursodeoxycholic acid is used to treat which pregnancy complication? Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy"
"How is progression of the second stage of labor evaluated? Fetal station Cervix/effacement is at maximum already"
"How do you measure the strength of uterine contractions? Intrauterine pressure catheter (IUPC)"
"What is the indication of methylergonovine? Uterine atony"
"What is a contraindication to methylergonovine? Hypertension (since it causes vasoconstriction)"
"Premature rupture of membrane (PROM) is a term baby with rupture of membranes without contractions"
"If the amniotic membrane has ruptured, you can confirm this with speculum exam to look for pooling of amnioitic fluid in the posterior vaginal fornix"
"How do you manage preterm premature rupture of membrane (PPROM)? < 24 weeks: abortion 24-34 weeks: steroids and abx > 34 weeks: steroids and abx and deliver Signs of infection: deliver"
"What is management of premature rupture of membranes at term? Induction of labor (oxytocin)"
"When are antibiotics indicated for PPROM? Always"
"Prolonged rupture of membrane is if there's a prolonged time between ROM and delivery that is greater than 18 hours"
"What is the complication of prolonged rupture of membranes for the fetus and mom? Chorioamnionitis/endometritis"
"Why is magnesium sulfate given to mothers at risk for delivery at <32 weeks gestation? Decreases risk of cerebral palsy in infants"
"Which tocolytic agent works by competing with Ca2+ for muscle depolarization (e.g. myometrium)? Magnesium sulfate"
"Indomethacin is contraindicated at which gestational age? > 32 weeks gestation"
"Until what gestational age are tocolytics given in the management of preterm labor? <34 weeks"
"What is a post-term pregnancy? >42 weeks gestation"
"What is an umbilical cord prolapse? Umbilical cord delivers through cervix ahead of the presenting fetal part"
"What notable neurological complication can forceps delivery cause? Facial nerve palsy"
"Forceps or vacuum extractor delivery requires that cervical os must be at 10 cm"
"Risks of vacuum extractor delivery to the baby include facial laceration and cephalohematoma"
"When is operative vaginal delivery (e.g. vacuum, forceps) indicated during the second-stage of labor? Protracted 2nd stage of labor 2nd-stage fetal heart rate abnormalities"
"What is management of labor in women who have contraindications to pushing? Operative vaginal delivery (e.g. vacuum, forceps)"
"Among the three outcomes of subsequent pregnancies after C-section, the best outcome is VBAC, while the worst outcome is TOLAC"
"Is a trial of labor (vaginal delivery) contraindicated in a patient with history of a low transverse cesarean delivery? No"
"Is a trial of labor (vaginal delivery) contraindicated in a patient with history of a classical (vertical) cesarean delivery? Yes"
"Is a trial of labor (vaginal delivery) contraindicated in a patient with history of an abdominal myomectomy with uterine cavity entry? Yes"
"What notable indication is cerclage used for? Cervical insufficiency"
"Which episiotomy can cause a fourth degree laceration and thus turn into a recto-vaginal fistula? Medial::Medial/Lateral"
"What is known as a \high spinal\\" or \\"total spinal\\"? Depression of cervical spinal cord and brainstem activity when local anesthesia ascends toward the head\""
"Amnioinfusion involves the instillation of fluid into the uterine cavity to treat variable decelerations"
"When is amnioinfusion contraindicated? Pt w/ a history of uterine surgery Presumably d/t risk of rupture"
"Postpartum hemorrhage is defined as >1000 mL blood loss after vaginal delivery"
"What is the supsected diagnosis when the patient has a postpartum hemorrhage and the uterus can't be felt? Uterine inversion"
"In a pregnant patient, ultrasound findings of intraplacental villous lakes is suggestive of what? Placenta accreta"
"- Placenta accreta refers to a placenta that has grown too deeply into the wall of the uterus with no separation between the placenta and the myometrium - Placenta increta burrows into the myometrium - Placenta percreta embeds through the myometrium and uterine serosa"
"How do you treat retained placenta? First-line: D&C Refractory: hysterectomy"
"Postpartum urinary retention can result from pudendal nerve palsy from pelvic floor injury"
"Pregnancy = ↓::↑↓↔ hematocrit"
"Inferior vena cava syndrome causes decreased::increased/decreased blood pressure when supine during pregnancy"
"How does coagulation change during pregnancy? Increased (hypercoagulable)::Increased/Decreased"
"Blood pressure in pregnancy decreases::increases/decreases"
"Maternal adaptations to pregnancy include: increased::increased/decreased/normal tidal volume normal::increased/decreased/normal respiratory rate"
"Pregnancy = ↑::↑↓↔ GFR and ↓::↑↓↔ creatinine/BUN"
"Pregnancy causes ↓ mobility of GI system"
"Functional residual capacity decreases::increases/decreases during pregnancy"
"The levels of TBG and total T4 are increased::increased/decreased with pregnancy::state and oral contraceptive use"
"Vaccinations recommended for all pregnant women during each pregnancy include inactivated influenza and Tdap"
"What is the OB/GYN history for a patient that is G3P1112? 3 pregnancies; 1 term delivery, 1 preterm delivery, 1 abortion, 2 living children"
"Frequency of checkups: Until the 28th week of pregnancy: q4w From the 28th week until the 36th week: q2w From the 36th week until birth: q1w"
"Maternal diabetes in the first trimester is associated with increased risk of cardiac, limb, and neural tube defects"
"What is the initial screening test of choice for fetal aneuploidy in pregnant women at > 10 weeks gestation with high-risk factors (e.g. age ≥ 35)? Cell-free fetal DNA testing"
"What is the most common cause of inherited intellectual disability? Fragile X syndrome"
"Down syndrome presents with increased::increased/decreased hCG and inhibin A"
"Folic acid in low-risk patients = 0.4 mg::dose Folic acid in high-risk patients = 4 mg::dose"
"What is the most common cause of elevated maternal serum AFP? Incorrect dating (i.e. underestimation of gestational age)"
"Quad screening is done in the second (13-28)::first/second trimester"
"Gestational diabetes = diabetes that begins > 20 weeks of gestation"
"What is the next best step in working up an infant at an increased risk for fetal anemia, as determined by maternal antibody titers? Transcranial doppler to assess for increased flow"
"After 20 weeks of pregnancy, an increased flow caught by intracranial doppler is indicative of fetal anemia"
"How do you manage pyelonephritis in pregnancy? Treat: IV ceftriaxone If refractory: U/S to rule out abscess"
"Pregnant women should::should/should not be re-screened for asymptomatic bacteriuria"
"Seizures and pregnancy = lamotrigine::antiepileptic or levetiracetam::antiepileptic"
"Pregnancy and hypothyroidism = ↑ dose of thyroid hormone"
"What are first-line treatment options for asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy? Cephalexin Amoxicillin-clavulanate (Augmentin) Nitrofurantoin Fosfomycin::4"
"What is management of gestational diabetes mellitus unresponsive to dietary modifications and exercise? Insulin"
"How does maternal insulin resistance change in pregnancy? Increase::Increase/Decrease"
"In testing for gestational diabetes, if the 1-hour glucose challenge test reveals a glucose of >140, then move to the 3-hour glucose tolerance test"
"The transition between the latent and active phase of first stage of labor typically occurs at 6 cm dilation"
"On average, what is the rate at which the cervix dilates during the active phase for a nulli? Multiparous? Nulli: 1.2 cm/hr Mulit: 1.5 cm/hr"
"Station 0 in fetal delivery is what anatomic landmark? Ischial spine"
"The cervix changes from rigid to loose by breaking disulfide bonds and infusing water which is stimulated by fetal head engagement and the production of prostaglandin E2"
""
"Breech baby = C-section::delivery method"
"There are three stages of labor"
"The first stage of labor is from onset of labor until cervix is completely dilated"
"The second stage of labor is from complete dilation (10 cm) until delivery of fetus"
"At what time do pregnant women need to be screened/cultured for GBS? 35 weeks"
"Fetal accelerations are good::good/bad"
""
"If the fetal HR cannot be confirmed using external methods, use fetal scalp electrode to determine HR"
"Intrauterine pressure catheter (IUPC) placement and frank blood is managed with withdrawing the catheter::next step"
"Episiotomies are generally contraindicated::indicated/contraindicated"
"What is the most common cause for premenstrual vaginal bleeding? Foreign body"
"Dilated cervix and products of conception not outside uterine cavity is a(n) inevitable abortion::condition Dilated cervix and products of conception within and outside of uterine cavity is a(n) incomplete abortion::condition"
"Closed cervix and dead baby on ultrasound is most likely a(n) missed abortion::condition"
"Ectopic pregnancies are confirmed with ultrasound and treated with immediate surgery"
"Intrauterine pregnancy will double β-HCG every 2 days"
"What is the next best step in working up a pregnant woman (as per UPT) who comes in with vaginal bleeding, an equivocal transvaginal ultrasound, and a β-hCG quantitative test over 1500? Ultrasound to assess for ectopic pregnancy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a premenopausal woman with heavy menstrual bleeding, dysmenorrhea, and an irregularly enlarged uterus? Leiomyomata uteri (fibroids)"
"The presence of endometrial glandular tissue into the uterine myometrium is known as adenomyosis, which presents with a(n) diffusely enlarged soft \globular\\" uterus\""
"Leiomyoma (fibroid) is a benign tumor of myometrium (smooth muscle)::layer of uterus; growth is due to estrogen::hormone exposure"
"What is the next step in diagnosis for a woman that presents with stress urinary incontinence with an irregularly enlarged uterus on physical exam? Pelvic ultrasound"
"Abnormal uterine bleeding is normal::normal/abnormal during menarche and menopause"
"Anovulatory cycles leads to irregular or heavy bleeding -- why? ↑ Estrogen proliferation of endometrium until exceed blood supply"
"What is the next best step in working up a pregnant woman (as per UPT) who comes in with vaginal bleeding, an equivocal transvaginal ultrasound, and a β-hCG quantitative test <1500? Repeat hCG testing in 48 hrs and diagnose IUP if it at least doubles (ectopic otherwise)"
"Stable patient with β-hCG < 1500 and transvaginal ultrasound is indeterminate; what is the next step? Repeat serum β-hCG in 2 days; if > 1500 then repeat TVUS"
"What is the next best step in working up a hemodynamically unstable female patient presents with vaginal bleeding and a positive urine pregnancy test? Immediate surgery consultation"
"What is the next best step in working up a hemodynamically stable female patient presents with vaginal bleeding and a positive urine pregnancy test? Transvaginal ultrasound"
"What drug is used to induce ovulation in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome? Clomiphene citrate"
"What is the first-line treatment for infertility or menstrual irregularities due to polycystic ovarian syndrome? Weight loss"
"Spironolactone, a K+ sparing diuretic, may be used to treat symptoms of androgen excess in polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS)"
"Treatment of incompetent cervix leading to repeated second-trimester pregnancy losses: cerclage at 14 weeks"
"Chronic HTN = sustained > 140/90 before 20 weeksGestational HTN ≥ 140/90 after 20 weeks"
"Preeclampsia is pregnancy-induced hypertension with proteinuria or end-organ dysfunction after 20th week of gestation"
"How do you treat or prevent seizures in preeclampsia or eclampsia? IV magnesium sulfate"
"HELLP syndrome is a severe version of preeclampsia that includes: Hemolysis Elevated Liver enzymes Low Platelets::symptoms"
"Prolonged rupture of membrane to treat chorioamnionitis/endometritis is managed with ampicillin/gentamicin and clindamycin::treatment"
"Contractions with cervical changes and gestational age 21- 36 weeks is suggestive of preterm labor::diagnosis"
"> 37 weeks = term labor"
"What BP defines preeclampsia with severe features? >160/110 mm Hg"
"In severe preeclampsia, headache and vision changes are due to vasoconstriction of carotid artery branches"
"Pre-eclampsia without severe features treatment: < 37 weeks is managed with bed rest > 37 weeks is managed with deliver"
"What is the treatment for pre-eclampsia with severe features, eclampsia, or HELLP syndrome? Magnesium and delivery"
"Thrombocytopenia in severe eclampsia is a contraindication to expectant management T::T/F"
"Dizygotic::Monozygotic/Dizygotic twins may be of different sexes"
""
"Twin pregnancies are divided into monozygotic and dizygotic pregnancies"
"Each twin has an individual amniotic sac and placenta = di::mono/di-chorionic, di::mono/di-amniotic"
"The twins share a placenta and have individual amniotic sacs = mono::mono/di-chorionic, di::mono/di-amniotic"
"Twins share both the placenta and amniotic sac = mono::mono/di-chorionic, mono::mono/di-amniotic"
"\Zygotic\\" = # of fertilizations \\"Chorionic\\" = # of placentas \\"Amniotic\\" = # of amniotic sacs\""
"Dichorionic twins: Lambda sign Monochorionic twins: T-sign"
"Proper weight gain is a good way to prevent premature low birth-weight babies in twin gestation"
"Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) and boggy uterus is suggestive of uterine atony::diagnosis"
"Post partum hemorrhage and absent uterus is suggestive of uterine inversion::diagnosis"
"Uterine atony is managed with uterine massage::first line physical treatment and oxytocin"
"Uterine inversion::Diagnosis is an obstetric emergency in which the uterine fundus collapses into the endometrial cavity, turning the uterus partially or completely inside out following vaginal birth"
"Label each type of deceleration "
"What should be done if pt is not progressing in labor but contracting? Intrauterine pressure catheter (IUPC) to monitor strength of contractions"
"What kind of deceleration is this? Variable"
"Painful bleeding = mum's problems (placental abrUption and Uterine rupture) Painless bleeding = baby's problems (placenta previa and vasa previa)"
"Placenta implants across cervical os, leading to baby bleeding when the cervical os dilates is suggestive of placenta previa::diagnosis"
"Blood vessels across cervical os, leading to baby bleeding after rupture of membranes is suggestive of vasa previa::diagnosis"
"Placental abruption = painful"
"Risk factors for placenta previa include multiparity::# pregnacies? and prior C-section::delivery method"
"1st trimester = conception - 12 weeks 2nd trimester = 13 to 27 weeks 3rd trimester = 28 weeks to birth"
"Painless bleeding after rupture of membranes with fetal bradycardia is suggestive of vasa previa::diagnosis"
"Benign causes of bleeding (e.g. after sex) include trauma to the cervix"
"If father is Rh-antigen (-), do you do anything else? No"
"Rapid Diagnosis HIV/AIDS in infants: <18 months → DNA PCR >18 months → ELISA/Western blot"
"Combined antiretroviral therapy (cART) is recommended throughout pregnancy for HIV (+) moms T::T/F"
"HIV transmission in pregnancy depends on maternal viral load"
"Congenital toxoplasmosis::TORCH presents as chorioretinitis, bilateral hydrocephalus, and diffuse intracranial calcifications"
"A positive screening test for Treponema pallidum (via VDRL or RPR) is confirmed via FTA-ABS (fluorescent treponemal antibody-absorption)"
"Darkfield microscopy = treponema pallidum::bacteria, most useful during early primary syphilis"
"Tertiary syphilis is diagnosed with CSF studies of RPR / FTA-Abs"
"Congenital syphilis presents with saber shin and saddle nose"
"Congenital PDA, cataracts, deafness = rubella::congenital infection"
"Herpes simplex virus is definitively diagnosed with cultures::gold standard or PCR"
"Mom has active herpes lesions - what is best delivery method? C-section::C-section/Vaginal delivery"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman with a suspected luteoma? Observation and expectant management"
"What is the next step in management for a mother with post-partum hemorrhage following a forceps-assisted vaginal delivery? The patient is afebrile and the uterus is normal-sized and firm. Genital tract inspection"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman at 28 weeks gestation with confirmed intrauterine fetal demise? The fetus is in the breech position on ultrasound. Induced vaginal delivery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a hemodynamically unstable patient with a gestational sac in the uterine cornu and free fluid in the posterior cul-de-sac on transvaginal ultrasound? Ruptured ectopic pregnancy"
"What is the recommended management for a hemodynamically stable patient with an ectopic pregnancy? Methotrexate"
"What is the recommended management for a hemodynamically unstable patient with a suspected ectopic pregnancy? Surgical exploration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese, multiparous pregnant woman at 34 weeks gestation that presents with intermittent leakage of clear fluid and a negative nitrazine/fern test? Stress urinary incontinence"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman that develops abdominal pain and hemorrhagic shock after failing to deliver the placenta? There is a smooth, round mass protruding through the vagina. Uterine inversion"
"What is the next step in management after IV lines have been placed in a woman with uterine inversion with a retained placenta? Manual replacement of the uterus"
"What is the next step in management after manual replacement of the uterus in a woman with uterine inversion with a retained placenta? Placental removal and uterotonics"
"Postpartum urinary retention is typically related to bladder atony"
"Amphetamine abuse during pregnancy is associated with fetal growth restriction::size"
"Patients in preterm labor at < 37 weeks should receive corticosteroids to reduce risk of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman at 10 weeks gestation that presents with hyperemesis gravidarum? Pelvic ultrasound reveals an intrauterine gestation enlarged for gestational age and bilateral 10-cm, multilocular ovarian masses. Theca lutein cysts (secondary to a complete hydatidiform mole)"
"Theca-lutein cysts arise due to ovarian hyperstimulation secondary to markedly elevated β-hCG levels"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a sexually active woman that presents with postcoital bleeding and mucopurulent discharge with a friable cervix on pelvic examination? Acute cervicitis"
"What are the most common causes of acute cervicitis? Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection"
"What is the recommended treatment for acute cervicitis? Azithromycin Ceftriaxone"
"Newly detectable β-hCG levels within 6 months following suction curettage for a hydatidiform mole is diagnostic for gestational trophoblastic disease (e.g. choriocarcinoma)"
"During the surveillance period following removal of a hydatidiform mole, patients must take contraceptives for 6 months"
"What is the underlying cause of early decelerations on fetal heart tracing? Fetal head compression"
"Severe fetal anemia typically presents with a(n) sinusoidal fetal heart tracing"
"What are the first-line agents for maternal hypertensive crisis? (3) Nifedipine Hydralazine Labetalol"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant patient that develops encephalopathy, nystagmus, and gait ataxia after several days of hyperemesis gravidum? Wernicke encephalopathy"
"Antenatally diagnosed placenta accreta is delivered by planned cesarean hysterectomy"
"Fetal growth restriction is an ultrasound-estimated fetal weight < 10th percentile for gestational age"
"Symmetric::Symmetric/Asymmetric fetal growth restriction begins in the first trimester and is typically caused by chromosomal abnormalities or intrauterine infection (TORCH)"
"Chronic hypertension is a blood pressure > 140/90 mmHg before the 20th week of gestation"
"Fetal complications of maternal hypertension include oligohydramnios, preterm delivery, and fetal growth restriction::size"
"What is the recommended treatment for septic pelvic thrombophlebitis? Anticoagulation and broad-spectrum antibiotics"
"Initial treatment of postpartum hemorrhage includes bimanual massage and uterotonics (e.g. oxytocin)"
"The diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy is made by a pregnancy test combined with transvaginal ultrasound"
"What is the most common site of implantation for ectopic pregnancy? Fallopian tube (ampulla)"
"Examination findings consistent with uterine rupture include the presence of abdominally palpable fetal parts and/or the loss of fetal station"
"Which TORCH infection(s) are routinely screened for in pregnant women during their first prenatal visit? Syphilis Rubella"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile postpartum woman that presents with bilateral, symmetric warmth and tenderness of the breasts 3 days after delivery? Breast engorgement"
"Lochia refers to normal vaginal discharge containing blood and/or mucus in the postpartum period"
"What is the first step in evaluating risk of preterm delivery in a patient with a history of cervical surgery (e.g. cold knife conization)? Transvaginal ultrasound measurement of cervical length in the 2nd trimester"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant patient with no history of preterm labor and a short cervix (≤ 2 cm) on TVUS? Vaginal progesterone"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant patient with history of preterm labor and a short cervix (≤ 2.5 cm) on TVUS? IM progesterone and cerclage With serial cervical length measurements until 24 weeks"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant patient with history of preterm labor and a normal cervix (> 2.5 cm) on TVUS? IM progesterone with serial cervical length measurements until 24 weeks"
"What is the most common cause of a non-reactive non-stress test? Fetal sleep cycle"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant patient that presents with painless third-trimester bleeding with a normal fetal heart tracing? Placenta previa"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman at 37 weeks gestation that presents with placenta previa? Cesarean delivery"
"Chorionic villus sampling may be performed between 10 to 13 weeks"
"Complications of inadequate weight gain during pregnancy include fetal growth restriction and preterm delivery"
"What is the recommended management for a hemodynamically unstable patient with an inevitable abortion? Suction curettage"
"Can a reactive non-stress test effectively rule out fetal acidemia? Yes"
"Magnesium is solely excreted by the kidneys"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile patient that recently delivered a macrosomic baby and now presents with sharp lower midline abdominal pain that radiates to the legs and is exacerbated by ambulation? Pubic symphysis diastasis"
"What is the recommended treatment for symptomatic postpartum pubic symphysis diastasis? Supportive (e.g. NSAIDs, physical therapy)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman at 35 weeks gestation that experiences irregular, mildly painful uterine contractions (~3-5 per hour) with a closed cervix on pelvic examination? False labor"
"What is the recommended management for patients that present in false labor (i.e. Braxton-Hicks)? Expectant management"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman with preeclampsia that develops sudden-onset dyspnea, hypoxia, and crackles? Pulmonary edema"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents one week after an elective abortion with fever, vaginal bleeding, abdominal pain, and purulent vaginal discharge? Pelvic ultrasound reveals a thickened endometrial stripe. Septic abortion"
"Normal postpartum changes include shivering, lochia, and a(n) contracted::relaxed/contracted uterus"
"Late- and post-term pregnancies require antenatal fetal surveillance beginning at 41 weeks with a(n) biophysical profile to screen for fetal hypoxia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn with thin, loose skin, a thin umbilical cord, and a wide anterior fontanel? Fetal growth restriction"
"Patients with placenta previa should be advised to avoid sexual intercourse"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant patient that presents with painless third-trimester bleeding with bradycardia on fetal heart tracing? Vasa previa"
"Complications of oxytocin include hypo-natremia, hypo-tension, and uterine tachysystole"
"What type(s) of fibroids are most associated with heavy menstrual bleeding and/or recurrent pregnancy loss? Submucosal and intracavitary fibroids (leiomyomata)"
"Polyhydramnios is characterized by an amniotic fluid index ≥ 24 cm or a single deepest pocket ≥ 8 cm"
"The major risk factor for shoulder dystocia is fetal macrosomia"
"What is the recommended treatment for a pregnant woman with antiphospholipid syndrome? Aspirin and LMW heparin"
"What is the typical prognosis for newborns with Erb-Duchenne or Klumpke palsy secondary to shoulder dystocia? Spontaneous resolution within 3 months (80%)"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman at 38 weeks gestation with chorioamnionitis after administration of antibiotics? Fetal heart tracing reveals tachycardia but is otherwise reassuring. Induction of labor"
"What screening test is used to determine if an Rh(D)- pregnant woman has already alloimmunized? Antibody screen (indirect Coombs test)"
"Hyperemesis gravidarum is differentiated from typical vomiting of pregnancy by the presence of laboratory abnormalities, changes in volume status, and/or ketones on urinalysis"
"Hyperemesis gravidarum is more common in patients with multiple gestation, hydatidiform mole, or history of GERD"
"What is the initial management for a hemodynamically unstable pregnant patient that presents with abruptio placentae following a motor vehicle accident? IV fluid resuscitation and left lateral decubitus positioning"
"Gestational diabetes is a result of pancreatic β-cell hyperplasia and increased insulin resistance secondary to elevated levels of human placental lactogen during the third trimester of pregnancy"
"What is the underlying pathophysiology of hypotension after administration of epidural anesthesia? Vasodilation and venous pooling"
"Leakage of CSF after epidural placement may result in postural headaches, which are worse with sitting up and better with lying down"
"What is the recommended management for a woman in the third trimester of pregnancy that presents with lower back pain that radiates down the legs, especially with activity? Physical exam is benign. Reassurance and conservative management"
"Maternal adaptations to pregnancy include a(n) increased cardiac output"
"What exercise regimen is recommended for healthy women with uncomplicated pregnancies? 20 - 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise on most or all days of the week"
"Systemic lupus erythematosus flare during pregnancy is distinguished from preeclampsia by the presence of RBC casts on urinalysis and classic symptoms of SLE (e.g. joint pain, malar rash)"
"Hypopituitarism may be caused by Sheehan syndrome, which is a pregnancy-related infarction of the pituitary gland"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postpartum woman that presents with lactation failure, amenorrhea, fatigue, and hypotension for months after a spontaneous vaginal delivery complicated by uterine atony? Sheehan syndrome"
"What is the recommended management for an asymptomatic patient with incidentally discovered endometriosis during an unrelated surgery? Observation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent girl at 15 weeks gestation that presents with symptoms of preeclampsia with severe features? Hydatidiform molar pregnancy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with sudden-onset unilateral pelvic pain with free fluid in the pelvis on ultrasound after strenuous exercise (sex)? Pregnancy test is negative. Ruptured ovarian cyst"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with sudden-onset unilateral pelvic pain with an enlarged, edematous ovary on ultrasound? Pregnancy test is negative. Ovarian torsion"
"What is the recommended treatment for a hemodynamically stable patient with a ruptured ovarian cyst? Supportive (e.g. analgesics)"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for infertility (to induce ovulation) due to polycystic ovarian syndrome? Clomiphene citrate"
"Ultrasound findings consistent with epithelial ovarian carcinoma include a solid mass with thick septations and the presence of ascites"
"The pathophysiology of bacterial vaginosis involves decreased colonization of the vagina with lactobacilli, leading to increased pH and overgrowth of anaerobic bacteria"
"What is the recommended treatment for bacterial vaginosis (Gardnerella infection)? Metronidazole or clindamycin"
"What cause of vaginitis is characterized by a positive amine whiff test? Bacterial vaginosis"
"What cause of vaginitis is characterized by a green, malodorous, frothy discharge and vaginal inflammation? Trichomoniasis (Trichomonas vaginalis infection)"
"Oral contraceptives are associated with decreased risk for ovarian and endometrial cancer"
"Oral contraceptives are associated with hypertension T::T/F"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a premenopausal woman with heavy menstrual bleeding, dysmenorrhea, and a uniformly enlarged, boggy, tender, and globular uterus? Adenomyosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for a symptomatic Bartholin duct cyst? Incision and drainage, followed by Word catheter placement"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 6-month postpartum woman that presents with irregular vaginal bleeding, an enlarged uterus, and dyspnea with multiple infiltrates on CXR? Choriocarcinoma"
"Choriocarcinoma is a tumor with early, diffuse hematogenous spread, especially to the lungs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young, sexually active woman that presents with fever, sore throat, and lower abdominal pain? Physical exam reveals erythematous tonsils without exudates and non-tender cervical lymphadenopathy. Gonococcal pharyngitis with pelvic inflammatory disease"
"What are the \three D's\\" of endometriosis? Dysmenorrhea Deep dyspareunia Dyschezia\""
"Empiric treatment for endometriosis consists of NSAIDs and/or OCPs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent girl with delayed puberty, clitoromegaly, and osteoporosis? Laboratory exam reveals undetectable estrogen and elevated testosterone levels. Aromatase deficiency"
"Placental aromatase deficiency can present with maternal virilization during pregnancy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a women age < 30 with a well-circumscribed, firm, mobile breast mass with sharp edges? Fibroadenoma (benign)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a women age > 30 with a well-circumscribed, soft, mobile breast mass? Breast cyst (benign)"
"The size/tenderness of fibroadenomas and breast cysts increase with exposure to estrogen"
"What is the initial test/imaging study for a women age < 30 with a persistent palpable breast mass? Ultrasound"
"What is the gold standard diagnostic test for acute cervicitis? Nucleic acid amplification testing (NAAT)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a premenopausal woman that presents with adnexal fullness and an ovarian cyst with calcifications and hyperechoic nodules on ultrasound? Dermoid ovarian cyst (mature cystic teratoma)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman with a history of a dermoid cyst that presents with colicky LLQ pain, nausea, and voluntary guarding? Pregnancy test is negative. Ovarian torsion"
"What is the definitive treatment for pregnant patients with HELLP syndrome? Delivery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postmenopausal woman that presents with breast tenderness and vaginal bleeding with a large adnexal mass on ultrasound? Granulosa cell tumor"
"What is the next step in management for a postmenopausal woman with a suspected granulosa cell tumor that presents with vaginal bleeding and a thickened endometrial stripe on ultrasound? Endometrial biopsy"
"What is the initial management for mild atrophic vaginitis? Vaginal moisturizer and lubricant"
"What is the recommended treatment for atrophic vaginitis refractory to vaginal moisturizer and lubricant? Topical vaginal estrogen"
"What is the recommended treatment for non-pregnant women age > 25 with grade 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN)? Ablate (conization, LEEP)"
"Potential complications of cervical conization include cervical stenosis, cervical incontinence, and preterm delivery"
"What is the gold standard method for diagnosis of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN)? Colposcopy"
"Just prior to ovulation, cervical mucus increases in quantity and becomes more watery and penetrable by sperm"
"Pap testing may be discontinued in patients age ≥ 65 with no history of CIN 2 or higher and 3 consective negative Pap tests or 2 consecutive negative co-testing results"
"What is the recommended management for an adolescent that presents with fever and leukocytosis secondary to pelvic inflammatory disease? Inpatient broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy"
"What is the next step in diagnosis for a middle-aged woman that presents with \night sweats\\""
"Very elevated levels of FSH is characteristic of menopause"
"Premature ovarian failure is characterized by increased FSH and LH levels"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young sexually active woman that presents with multiple papular lesions around the vagina? Some lesions bleed with manipulation. Condylomata acuminata (genital warts)"
"Condylomata acuminata (genital warts) is associated with HPV strains 6 and 11"
"Treatment of small genital warts includes topical medications, such as trichloroacetic acid or podophyllin resin"
"Candida vaginitis is more common in patients with recent corticosteroid, antibiotic, or OCP use"
"The HPV vaccine is typically administered beginning at age 11 - 12 and is recommended for everyone up until age 26"
"Which genital infection is characterized by painful, deep ulcers with a gray/yellow exudate and severe lymphadenopathy with pus? Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid)"
"What is the preferred test to diagnose Haemophilus ducreyi infection (chancroid)? Bacterial culture"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile middle-aged woman that presents with unilateral breast warmth, erythema, and swelling refractory to antibiotics? Inflammatory breast carcinoma"
"The gross appearance of inflammatory breast cancer is often described as resembling a(n) orange peel (Peau d'orange)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with pelvic pressure and voiding dysfunction one year after a hysterectomy? Pelvic examination reveals a protruding vaginal mass, especially with the Valsalva maneuver. Pelvic organ prolapse"
"What pelvic surgery complication is characterized by continuous involuntary loss of urine through the vagina in the absence of other urinary symptoms? Vesicovaginal fistula"
"What is the initial test/imaging study for a women age > 30 with a palpable breast mass? Mammogram"
"What is the recommended treatment for imperforate hymen? Incision and drainage"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman that presents with \labor pains\\" despite recently having her period? Pelvic examination reveals an irregularly enlarged uterus and a dilated cervix with a firm mass visible through the external os. Prolapsing uterine fibroid\""
"What cancer(s) are associated with atypical glandular cells on Pap testing? Cervical and endometrial adenocarcinoma"
"Indications for endometrial biopsy include abnormal uterine or postmenopausal bleeding in women age ≥ 45"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with a painless genital ulcer and bilateral inguinal lymphadenopathy? Serum RPR is negative. Empiric penicillin treatment"
"Patients with suspected premenstrual syndrome (PMS) should record a(n) symptom/menstrual diary to aid in diagnosis"
"What is the first-line treatment for premenstrual syndrome (PMS)? SSRIs"
"What is the gold standard test for male factor infertility? Semen analysis"
"What is the recommended management for a patient with suspected endometriosis refractory to NSAIDs and OCPs? Laparoscopy"
"What is the definitive treatment for endometriosis? Hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oohorectomy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a premenopausal woman that presents with dyspareunia and dry vaginal mucosa? The patient's history is significant for chronic dry eyes/mouth. Sjögren's syndrome"
"The gold standard for diagnosis of ovarian torsion is ultrasound, which typically reveals an ovarian mass with absent Doppler flow"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman that presents with fever and RLQ abdominal pain with a large multiloculated adnexal mass on ultrasound? Tubo-ovarian abscess"
"What is the recommended contraceptive for a woman with a history of anemia and medication non-compliance? Levonorgestrel IUD"
"Common side effects of the injectable medroxyprogesterone contraceptive are breast tenderness, fatigue, vaginal bleeding/spotting and weight gain::weight gain/weight loss"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with foul-smelling brown discharge from the posterior vaginal wall two weeks after a vaginal delivery complicated by third-degree laceration? Rectovaginal fistula"
"Stress urinary incontinence is often associated with urethral hyper-mobility or decreased urethral sphincter tone"
"What is the first-line treatment for stress urinary incontinence due to urethral hypermobility? Pelvic muscle exercises (e.g. Kegel exercises)"
"What is the best long-term management for stress urinary incontinence due to urethral hypermobility? Urethral sling surgery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with chronic pelvic pain, especially with exercise, and a homogenous cystic ovarian mass on ultrasound? Ovarian endometrioma (secondary to endometriosis)"
"What ultrasound finding is typical for an ovarian endometrioma? Homogenous cystic mass"
"Uterine procidentia is a form of pelvic organ prolapse in which the entire uterus herniates through the vagina along with the anterior and posterior vaginal walls"
"What is the recommended treatment for symptomatic pelvic organ prolapse refractory to lifestyle modifications? Pessary or surgical management"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a premenopausal woman that presents with unilateral bloody nipple discharge with no palpable breast mass or lymphadenopathy? Intraductal papilloma"
"What is the recommended treatment for advanced ovarian cancer? Exploratory laparotomy followed by chemotherapy (e.g. cisplatin and paclitaxel)"
"The absence of bleeding following a progestin withdrawal challenge may be indicative of low estrogen levels or lack of an endometrial lining to bleed from"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with crampy abdominal/back pain during the first few days of menses with a normal physical examination? Primary dysmenorrhea"
"Lactational amenorrhea occurs due to high levels of prolactin, which has an inhibitory effect on the production of GnRH"
"What is the effect of low estrogen levels on vaginal pH? Increased pH (> 5)"
"What is the recommended screening for asymptomatic patients at average-risk of ovarian cancer? No screening recommended"
"What pharmacologic agent may be used in the treatment of urgency incontinence? Anti-muscarinic agents (e.g. oxybutynin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 38-year-old woman that presents with infertility despite a regular menstrual cycle and normal physical exam? Decreased ovarian reserve"
"Androgen insensitivity syndrome is characterized by an absent uterus, cervix, and upper vagina due to normal production of anti-müllerian hormone (MIF)"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant patient with high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion discovered on Pap testing? Immediate colposcopy ± biopsy (safe during pregnancy)"
"What is the most common side effect of tamoxifen? Hot flashes (80%)"
"The most common cause of physiologic galactorrhea is hyperprolactinemia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman with suspected pelvic inflammatory disease that presents with severe RUQ pain? Fitz-Hugh-Curtis disease (perihepatitis)"
"Indications for endometrial biopsy include abnormal uterine bleeding in women age < 45 with obesity::risk factor and/or anovulation::menstrual cycle abnormality"
"Postmenopausal women with ultrasound findings suspicious for ovarian cancer and/or elevated CA-125 should undergo further imaging (e.g. CT, MRI) prior to surgical exploration"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant patient with chronic hepatitis C infection and no immunity to hepatitis A/B? Administer hepatitis A and B vaccines (prevent further liver damage)"
"What is the definition of secondary amenorrhea? Absence of menses for ≥ 3 cycles or ≥ 6 months in pt w/ previously irregular cycles"
"Postpartum thyroiditis is often characterized by an initial brief hyper-thyroid phase followed by a(n) hypo-thyroid phase"
"What is the typical outcome of postpartum thyroiditis? Return to euthyroid over several months"
"Nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia is caused by a(n) partial deficiency of 21-hydroxylase"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn born to a mother with Grave's disease that presents with irritability, tachycardia, and low birth weight? Neonatal thyrotoxicosis"
"Does levothyroxine significantly increase the risk for neonatal thyrotoxicosis? No (doesn't cross placenta to a significant degree)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a newborn with microcephaly, cleft lip/palate, and distal phalange hypoplasia? Fetal hydantoin syndrome"
"All women are screened during the first prenatal visit for asymptomatic bacteriuria due to risk of pyelonephritis, preterm birth, and low birth weight"
"Newborns with ABO incompatibility are typically asymptomatic at birth or have mild anemia"
"Post-menopausal hormonal therapy is associated with increased HDL and decreased LDL"
"What is the most effective treatment for menopausal hot flashes, night sweats, and vaginal dryness? Hormone replacement therapy"
"What is the recommended treatment for lichen simplex chronicus? High-potency topical corticosteroids ± antihistamines"
"Diagnosis of adrenal tumor is supported by an elevated level of dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS)"
"Do maternal Lewis antibodies during pregnancy pose significant risk for hemolytic disease of the newborn? No"
"Optimal daily calcium supplementation in postmenopausal women is 1200 mg"
"What is the recommended management for a 21-year-old woman with atypical cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) discovered on Pap testing and negative HPV testing? Routine screening"
"What is the recommended management for a 21-year-old woman with atypical cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) discovered on Pap testing and positive HPV testing? Repeat cytology in 12 months"
"What is the recommended management for women age 25 and older with atypical cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS) discovered on Pap testing and positive HPV testing? Colposcopy"
"What is the next step in management for a woman that presents in active labor with the fetus in transverse lie position? Cesarean delivery"
"Intrapartum penicillin should be administered to those with unknown GBS status if they are < 37 weeks gestation, have intrapartum fever, or have ROM for ≥ 18 hours"
"What is the most appropriate test to determine risk of intrauterine fetal demise in patients with intrauterine growth restriction? Doppler ultrasound of umbilical artery"
"Woman present with high grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) lesion on Pap -- best next step? Immediate colposcopy or LEEP"
"What are most postpartum endometritis cases in term of their bacterial flora? Polymicrobial (aerobes and anaerobes)"
"Most significant risk factor for postpartum depression is prior depression"
"What is the safest way to prevent lactation in a postpartum woman? Conservative: supportive bra, ice packs, analgesics"
"OCPs are contraindicated up to 4 weeks after pregnancy because of increased risk of DVTs"
"Frequent nursing, warm shower/compresses, massaging breast to express milk are ways to manage breast engorgement"
"Oxytocin::hormone stimulates milk ejection after suckling::action"
"Infants born to moms with chorioamniotitis will appear pale, lethargic, and febrile::febrile/afebrile"
"In twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS): Recipient::Donor/Recipient twin = polycythemia, polyhydramnios Donor::Donor/Recipient twin = anemia, growth retardation, oligohydramnios"
"What neonatal complications are associated with gestational diabetes? Hypoglycemia::due to hyperinsulinemia, polycythemia::RBC state, hyperbilirubinemia::due to immmature liver enzymes, respiratory distress::due to immature surfactant, hypocalcemia::due to immature parathyroids"
"What is the correct head position for a neonate on positive pressure ventilation? \sniffing\\" position\""
"Immediately after delivery of a vigorous infant, initiate skin-skin contact with mom"
"Cord prolapse often occurs with abnormal fetal presentation"
"Which SSRI is contraindicated during pregnancy? Paroxetine"
"Are SSRIs safe during breastfeeding? Yes"
"MCC of preterm labor is idiopathic"
"What should be given to women with unknown GBS status who go into preterm labor? Penicillin or ampicillin"
"Most important modifiable behavioral risk factor for preterm labor and birth = smoking"
"IUGR is fetal weight below 10th percentile::what percentile? and is most commonly caused by placental insufficiency"
"When is delivery indicated in an IUGR fetus with oligohydramnios or abnormal doppler velocimetry of umbilical artery? 36 weeks"
"IUGR fetuses should be monitored 1-2 times weekly::daily/weekly/monthly with non-stress tests (NST), biophysical profile, amniotic fluid index (AFI), and umbilical artery doppler"
"For third-trimester bleeding , use the PPQRST mnemonic for questions to ask: "
"What kind of vaginal exam is indicated in placenta previa? Speculum examination (involves no risk of cervical penetration)"
"Pt with polyhydramnios with rapid decompression of uterine cavity due to oxytocin use begins to bleed. Likely dx? Placental abruption"
"The cervix::GYN region becomes hypervascular in pregnancy"
"Tocolysis is used in PROM to delay delivery up to 48 hours in order to administer steroids"
"Variable decelerations can be 2/2 ↓::↑/↓ amniotic fluid"
"What two surveillance measures should be done beginning at 41 weeks gestation? NST Amniotic fluid monitoring"
"Postterm pregnancy → oligohydramnios"
"Pregnancy dating in women with irregular periods should be confirmed with first trimester ultrasound::imaging"
"Postterm pregnancy > 42 weeks with a favorable cervix is managed with induction of labor::next step"
"What is the first step in induction of a pt with closed cervix? Prostaglandin E1 tablet (e.g. misoprostol)"
"Gestational age can be calculated as # of days after the first day of LMP"
"What gestational age is vacuum aspiration recommended by? 8 weeks"
"Heavy bleeding with retained products of conception (POC) post-termination of pregnancy is managed with D&C::next step"
"Surgical abortion should be accompanied with antibiotics to prevent infection"
"Before abortion, do a urine pregnancy test and ultrasound::imaging to verify location and age of gestation"
"Uncontrolled maternal diabetes = polyhydramnios"
"Painless cervical dilation, in the absence of uterine contractions and/or labor, in the second trimester of pregnancy is suggestive of cervical incompetence::diagnosis"
"Breast engorgement can::can/cannot cause a low-grade fever"
"Hypoglycemia and elevated PT/PTT are more common in acute fatty liver of pregnancy::HELLP/acute fatty liver of pregnancy"
"Increased creatinine or LFTs classifies pre-eclampsia as severe::category"
"Severe headache or visual changes classifies pre-eclampsia as severe::category"
"Methyldopa = chronic::acute/chronic hypertension in pregnancy"
"Category III fetal heart tracing = intrauterine resuscitative intervention::initial step; if refractory do C-section"
"Asherman syndrome (intrauterine synechiae) is often the result of intrauterine surgery (e.g. myomectomy or overaggressive dilation and curettage (D&C))"
"A thin endometrial stripe suggests a(n) empty uterine cavity"
"hCG = ↑::↑↓↔ thyroid function"
"Delivery method of nonviable fetuses? Vaginal delivery"
"How do you manage virilization during pregnancy? Conservative"
"Recurrent pregnancy loss may be investigated with maternal coagulation studies"
"Thiamine (B1)::vitamin deficiency = Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome"
"When during pregnancy does acute fatty liver of pregnancy occur? Third trimester or early postpartum period"
"Pre-eclampsia at < 20 weeks gestation with an enlarged uterus be a complication of hydatidiform mole::trophoblastic disease"
"The majority of placenta previas resolve spontaneously T::T/F"
"Placental abruption can cause a variable amount of vaginal bleeding T::T/F"
"Severe microcephaly with thin cerebral corticies and multiple intracranial calcifications is suggestive of congenital Zika syndrome::diagnosis"
"HSV lesions during labor = C-section::delivery method No lesions during labor = vaginal delivery::delivery method"
"Category 3 heart tracing"
"Melasma (chloasma) is a mask-like hyperpigmentation of the cheeks associated with pregnancy and OCPs"
"Estrogen::What hormone? is responsible for ↑ DVT risk"
"What is the clinical use of ulipristal? Emergency contraception (progesterone receptor modulator)"
"The Depot medroxyprogesterone shot (DMPA) can cause unpredictable bleeding that resolves after 2-3 months"
"Hormonal contraception is less::less/more effective in patients who are obese"
"Uterine fibroids in lower uterine segment during pregnancy --> C-section::next step"
"Itching and thick white \cottage cheese\\" vaginal discharge = Candida albicans::infection\""
"Pseudohyphae on KOH prep in the cold = Candida::fungus"
"Candida albicans::Candida albicans/Gardnerella vaginalis does not::does/does not change the vaginal pH"
"Drug of choice for candidal infections of all types? Fluconazole"
"Gardnerella vaginalis is characterized by a fishy smelling, grayish-white::color discharge from the vagina"
"Gardnerella vaginalis is treated with metronidazole"
"Trichomonas vaginalis symptoms include a(n) yellow-green::color change cervical discharge"
"Trichomonas vaginalis infection occurs in a pH of >4.5"
"What is the treatment of Trichomonas vaginalis? Metronidazole for both partners"
"Candida, gardnerella, and trichomonas cause infections of the vagina::vagina/cervix"
"Cervical motion tenderness and mucopurulent/bloody discharge without PID symptoms is suggestive of cervicitis::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman that presents with fever, lower abdominal pain, and purulent cervical discharge? Physical exam reveals cervical motion tenderness. Pelvic inflammatory disease"
"Vulva::Anatomical location consists of labia majora, minora, vestibule of vagina, clitoris, and perineum"
"Thin, white vulvar lesions with parchment-like skin = lichen sclerosis"
"Patient presents with pruritic, purple, polygonal planar papules, and plaques Lichen planus"
"Chronic vulvar \burning\\" or soreness that is triggered by touch/pressure (e.g. sex) is suggestive of vulvodynia::diagnosis\""
"HbSAg (+) post-exposure prophylaxis = HbIg and vaccination"
"On pap smear, how do you describe squamous epithelial cell abnormalities that are atypical, but not adequate to determine significance? Atypical Squamous Cells of Undetermined Significance (ASCUS)"
"What is the next best step in management if you have a positive endocervix finding upon colposcopy? Cone biopsy"
"What is the next best step in management if you have a positive ectocervix finding and negative endocervix finding upon colposcopy? Local destruction (LEEP/Cryoablation)"
"What is the next best step in management if pt has an abnormal Pap smear? Colposcopy to get ectocervical biopsy and endocervical curettage::Not ASCUS"
"What is the next best step in management if you have a Pap smear revealing ASCUS? Increase Pap smear to q6 months OR HPV DNA testing"
"What is the #1 risk factor for cervical carcinoma? Multiple sexual partners (→ high risk HPV 16/18/31/33)"
"The quadrivalent vaccine Gardasil protects against HPV types 6,11,16,18"
"What bad habit can increase the risk of cervical cancer? Smoking"
"Cervical cancer with visible lesion is managed with cervical biopsy::next step"
"What should be done with cervical leukoplakia (white plaque)? Biopsy"
"Endometrial hyperplasia is usually caused by unopposed estrogen, seen in obese::obese/thin women"
"Granulosa cell tumor = ↑ estrogen::hormone"
"Whar are the three types of ovarian cancer classifications? Epithelial Stromal Germ cell"
"A(n) simple::simple/complex cyst is one that is small, homogenous, cystic, unilocular"
"Simple ovarian cysts are usually not treated T::T/F"
"Diagnosis of a mole or choriocarcinoma is with β-HCG level::serum marker and TVUS::imaging"
"Partial::Complete/Partial mole has fetal parts"
"46 XX or XY mole = complete::partial/complete hydatidiform mole 69 XXY mole = partial::partial/complete hydatidiform mole"
"\Snowstorm\\" pattern on uterine ultrasound is suggestive of complete hydatidiform mole::condition\""
"DES exposure in utero = clear cell adenocarcinoma (vagina)::neoplasm"
"Vulvar cancer (squamous, melanoma) are treated with vulvectomy::first line treatment +/- LN dissection"
"↑↑↑ hCG = complete::partial/complete hydatidiform mole"
"Persistent molar pregnancy is more likely in complete::complete/partial moles"
"Infection with HPV::virus increases risk of vulvar cancer"
"Anterior vaginal wall prolapse is suggestive of cystocele::condition"
"Stress incontinence is characterized by leakage when there is an increased intra-abdominal pressure (e.g. sneezing, lifting)"
"Vaginal delivery, prostate surgery, and obesity increase risk for stress incontinence"
"Stress incontinence is due to outlet incompetence (e.g. urethral hypermobility or intrinsic sphincteric deficiency)"
"Stress incontinence is associated with a positive bladder stress test"
"Treatment for stress incontinence includes strengthening pelvic floor/external sphincter muscles (e.g. Kegels)"
"Urge incontinence is due to an overactive bladder due to detrusor muscle hyperactivity"
"Treatment for urgency incontinence includes anti-muscarinics and bladder training (e.g. timed voiding, distraction, or relaxation techniques)"
"Urge incontinence may be treated with anti-muscarinics, such as oxybutynin"
"Overflow incontinence is associated with increased post-void residual (urinary retention) on catheterization or ultrasound"
"Irritative bladder is inflammation of the bladder"
"What pharmacologic agent may be used in the treatment of overflow incontinence? Cholinergic agonists (e.g. bethanecol)"
"Mirabegron = β3 agonist (overactive bladder)::drug class"
"Uterosacral nodularity = endometriosis::diagnosis"
"Endometriosis = decreased::increased/decreased fertility"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a female with bladder pain that is relieved with voiding, as well as dyspareunia, urinary frequency/urgency, and normal urinalysis? Interstitial cystitis (painful bladder syndrome)"
"Post-operative pelvic pain is suggestive of pelvic adhesive disease::diagnosis"
"Chronic pelvic pain and varicosities on pelvic veins is suggestive of pelvic congestion syndrome::diagnosis"
"(+) Carnett sign (pain with abdominal contraction) is suggestive of abdominal wall pain::condition"
"Irregular enlargement of uterus is suggestive of fibroids::diagnosis Enlarged boggy uterus is suggestive of adenomyosis::diagnosis"
"How do OCPs decrease dysmenorrhea? Progestin causes endometrial atrophy causing fewer prostaglandins to be produced by endometrium"
"Secondary::Primary/secondary dysmenorrhea is menstrual pain due to conditions like endometriosis, adenomyosis, fibroids, or PID"
"Which gynecological cancer presents with bloating, lower abdominal pain/pressure, and urinary frequency/urgency? Ovarian cancer"
"Precocious puberty is when a patient presents with secondary sex characteristics before age 8 in girls (or 9 in boys)"
"What is the next step in management for precocious puberty if the pulsatile GnRH stimulation test increases LH levels? Brain MRI"
"Delayed puberty is the lack of secondary sex characteristics by age 13 or lack of menses by age 15"
"In gonadotropin-dependent (central) precocious puberty, LH levels are high at baseline"
"Androgen production during puberty comes from the adrenal glands in the form of DHEA"
"Kallmann syndrome is characterized by a defective migration of GnRH cells and defective formation of the olfactory bulb"
"What is the first step in the workup of amenorrhea? Pregnancy test"
"Anorexia nervosa/increased exercise is associated with amenorrhea due to loss of pulsatile GnRH secretion from the hypothalamus"
"Anosmia and ↓ GnRH is suggestive of Kallmann syndrome::condition"
"Patient presents with streak ovaries, congenital heart disease, horseshoe kidney, cystic hygroma at birth, short statue, webbed neck, and lymphedema is suggestive of Turner syndrome::diagnosis"
"Turner syndrome increases risk of what two cardiovascular conditions? Bicuspid aortic valve Coarctation of aorta (infantile)"
"What is the next step in management of a patient with primary amenorrhea who has an intact endocrine axis but no uterus. Karyotyping"
"In androgen insensitivity syndrome a person is genotypically XY but has female external genitalia with presence of testes::male organ"
"What is the treatment of androgen insensitivity syndrome (phenotypic female with 46-XY)? Bilateral gonadectomy after puberty"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent girl that presents with amenorrhea and cyclic lower abdominal pain with a bulging vaginal mass on physical exam? Imperforate hymen"
"Treatment of Kallman syndrome and craniopharyngioma is hormone replacement therapy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent female that presents with amenorrhea with a non-palpable uterus and normal-size ovaries on ultrasound? Müllerian agenesis (Mayer-Rokitanksy-Küster-Hauser syndrome)"
"When a woman presents with secondary amenorrhea, what are the three \first-line\\" differentials you should have in your head? Pregnancy::Most common cause Hypothyroidism Prolactinemia\""
"1° hypo::hypo/hyperthyroidism = ↑ prolactin = ↓ GnRH"
"Amenorrhea and galactorrhea and infertility = prolactinoma::neoplasm"
"Antipsychotics may cause symptoms of prolactin excess (e.g. galactorrhea, amenorrhea, gynecomastia)"
"Asherman syndrome is secondary amenorrhea due to loss and scarring of the basalis layer of the endometrium"
"Savage syndrome is caused by FSH receptor insensitivity (\resistant ovary syndrome\\")\""
"Menopause is associated with increased::increased/decreased levels of FSH, LH, and GnRH with decreased::increased/decreased levels of estrogen"
"What is seen in a positive progestin challenge in the workup of secondary amenorrhea? Withdrawal bleeding"
"After weight loss, PCOS is treated with OCPs::drug to regulate cycles and reduce androgenic symptoms"
"Before starting workup for amenorrhea, order a(n) UPT::test"
"Some patients with a history of irregular periods may have a period of amenorrhea following discontinuation of OCPs"
"Which etiology of hirsutism presents with elevated testosterone, a LH:FSH ≥ 3:1, and typically affects both ovaries? PCOS"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome often presents in young, obese women with oligo- or amenorrhea and symptoms of androgen excess"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome is characterized by high::low/high LH and low::low/high FSH"
"What is the first-line treatment for infertility or irregular menstrual cycles in patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome? Weight loss and OCPs"
"Sertoli-Leydig tumors produce androgens::hormones causing rapid-onset hirsutism/virilization::feature in women"
"What is the likely source of an androgen-secreting tumor in a female with elevated testosterone and elevated dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) levels? Adrenal tumor"
"Hirsutism::Hirsutism/Virilization = weight gain and male pattern hair growth Virilization::Hirsutism/Virilization = above and masculinization (clitoromegaly, deep voice, muscles)"
"Estrogen::Hormone = endometrium proliferation phase Progesterone::Hormone = endometrium secretory phase"
"Patients with PCOS may have infertility due to anovulation from failed follicular maturation"
"Insulin resistance in PCOS is managed with metformin::treatment"
"Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) must include 2/3 of: 1. Clinical or biochemical evidence of ↑ androgens (acne/hirsutism)::condition 2. Irregular menstruation (oligo/anovulatory)::menstrual cycle abnormality 3. Polycystic ovaries::condition on ultrasound or histology"
"Oral contraceptive pills can be used to treat hirsutism (e.g. in PCOS). How? Estrogen/progesterone negative feedback → decreases anterior pituitary LH → decreases ovarian androgen production from Theca cells"
"Which etiology of hirsutism is considered the diagnosis of exclusion (i.e. hormone levels all normal)? Hair follicle androgen sensitivity (familial hirsutism)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that develops amenorrhea, weight gain, hypertension, hirsutism, muscle weakness, and easy bruising (striae)? Cushing syndrome"
"What is the pathophysiologic cause of postpartum telogen effluvium (hair loss)? High estrogen levels during pregnancy"
"How do you treat menopausal hot flashes? Venlafaxine"
"What is the term for menopause that occurs before age 40? Primary ovarian insufficiency"
"Vaginal atrophy is managed with estrogen cream::treatment"
"What is the recommended screening protocol for osteoporosis? One-time DEXA scan for all women ≥ 65"
"What is the best initial therapy for osteoporosis? Vitamin D and Ca and bisphosphonates"
"Luteal phase (ovulation to menstruation) = 14 days::length"
"The Women's Health Initiative (WHI) Study had poor external::internal/external validity due to ↑ age of participants (63 yo)"
"Post-menopausal ovaries continue to produce androgens, which are converted in fat cells into estrogen"
"Treatment of infertility due to inhospitable mucous is estrogen"
"Infertile women with anovulatory cycles may be treated with clomiphene::drug, which stimulates ↑ GnRH"
"How do you work up anatomical causes of infertility? Hysterosalpingogram"
"What do you look at to determine if an infertile woman is ovulating? Basal temperature ↑::↑/↓ with ovulation Endometrial biopsy to ensure secretory uterus during the luteal phase Serum progesterone levels should be ↑::↑/↓ during the luteal phase"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman that presents with infertility and chronic pelvic pain with a fixed, immobile uterus on physical exam? Endometriosis"
"Evaluating infertility should begin by doing tests on the male::male/female because it's cheaper/easier to do"
"Infertility and history of irregular menses = anovulation::cause of infertility"
"↓ Ovarian reserve = ↓ anti-müllerian hormone"
"Primary hypo::hypo/hyperthyroidism = ↑ prolactin"
"Supplementation with Ca2+ has been shown to improve premenstrual syndrome"
"What is the treatment of symptomatic MVP in pregnancy? β-blockers"
"What component of amniotic fluid should be measured to classify the severity of Rh hemolytic disease? Bilirubin"
"How much fetal blood is neutralized by 300 mcg (one dose) of Rhogam? 30mL"
"Most fibroids are asymptomatic::symptomatic/asymptomatic"
"Ovulatory::characteristic women usually have regular menses Anovulatory::characteristic women usually have irregular menses"
"Ovarian torsion occurs due to twisting of the ovary around the suspensory ligament; biggest risk factor is ovarian enlargement (pregnancy, tumor, cyst)"
"The uterine artery is a branch of the internal iliac artery"
"(F) corresponds to the: Uterosacral ligament"
"The Cardinal ligament::ligament connects the cervix to the side wall of the pelvis and contains the uterine vessels"
"The Round ligament of the uterus connects the uterine fundus to the labia majora"
"Which ligament connects the uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries to the side wall of the pelvis? Broad ligament"
"What is the biggest predictor of the \patch\\" failing as contraception? Weight (> 198 lbs)\""
"Post-term pregnancy (> 41 weeks) and oligohydramnios is managed with induce/deliver::next step"
"Starting OCPs::drug may lead to breakthrough bleeding"
"Irregular mass post-trauma to breast is suggestive of fat necrosis::diagnosis"
"What is the likely underlying etiology of painless, irregular, heavy menses in an adolescent girl that started menstruation one year ago? Immaturity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis"
"Endometrial polyps often present with intermenstrual spotting::bleeding characteristic without uterine enlargement"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who develops respiratory failure, hypotension, and DIC immediately post-partum? Amniotic fluid embolism"
"Menses typically return to normal after 1-3::#-# months of cessation of OCPs"
"What teratogenic effect is associated with valproic acid? Neural tube defects (e.g. spina bifida)"
"Post-pregnancy dysparenuia is due to elevated prolactin::hormone levels associated with breastfeeding"
"The pathogenesis of HELLP syndrome involves hepatic and systemic inflammation::process, activation of the coagulation cascade, and platelet consumption"
"Treatment of postpartum urinary retention causing overflow incontinence is urethral cath"
"5α-reductase deficiency::5a-reductase deficiency/Complete androgen insensitivity = female-appearing child with masculinization at puberty, bilateral undescended testes, and no breasts"
"Elevated CA-125 in a(n) post-menopausal woman is concerning for cancer"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese woman with an erythematous plaques involving the skin folds (e.g. breasts, inguinal, gluteal, axillary) along with satellite lesions? Intertrigo (most commonly due to Candida)"
"In addition to postmenopausal women, lichen sclerosus may also occur in premenarchal girls::population"
"Genitourinary syndrome of menopause (atrophic vaginitis) = ↑::↑/↓ UTIs and dysuria"
"Lichen sclerosus can have perianal involvement that results in painful defecation and anal fissures"
"Ovarian cancer and SOB and abdominal distension is due to presence of ascites"
"White, odorless mucoid cervical discharge that increases midcycle due to ↑ estrogen levels and without inflammation/infection is suggestive of physiologic leukorrhea::diagnosis"
"Desmopressin (DDAVP) is used to treat: hemophilia A::hematologic condition von Willebrand disease (type 1)::hematologic condition"
"Diabetic neuropathy = overflow incontinence"
"A patient presents with an abnormal localized outpouching of the urethral mucosa, leading to a palpable, tender mass in the anterior vaginal wall. Symptoms include postvoid dribbling, dysuria, and dyspareunia. Urethral discharge is bloody and purulent. What is the diagnosis? Urethral diverticulum::diagnosis"
"Condyloma acuminata in children is concerning for sexual abuse"
"Raloxifene can increase DVT risk T::T/F"
"Asherman syndrome causes no response to progesterone challenge T::T/F"
"Mature cystic teratomas have a higher risk of causing ovarian torsion due to their hetereogenous composition"
"Unilateral (nonmidline) pelvic pain = secondary::primary/secondary dysmenorrhea"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with the rash pictured below? It is painful and has been present for months. Hidradenitis suppurativa"
"Soft, mobile, nontender cystic mass palpated behind the posterior labia majora is suggestive of bartholin gland cyst::diagnosis"
"Primary HSV typically resolves spontaneously within a week of lesion development::outcome"
"CA-125 is more useful in post-menopausal women"
"Treatment of primary dysmenorrhea is NSAIDs Treatment of PMS is SSRI"
"Rhogam is administered at 28 weeks and before or after::before/after/either delivery"
"Loss of rugation = ↓ estrogen level"
"(+) Chlamydia and (-) gonorrhea with PCR testing is managed with treat chlamydia only::next step"
"Tamoxifen = ↑ risk of endometrial polyps in premenopausal women"
"Endometrial polyps typically bleed between (intermenstrual spotting)::time period regular, monthly cycles"
"Acute fatty liver of pregnancy::Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy/Acute fatty liver of pregnancy has worse symptoms (fulminant hepatic failure)"
"Mitral stenosis can worsen during pregnancy::state due to ↑ transmitral gradient"
"Inadequate colposcopy (e.g. SCJ not fully visualized) is managed with cone biopsy / endocervical curettage::next step"
"Serious complication of bartholin abscess → necrotizing fascitis"
"Clomiphene is associated with twin::# pregnancies"
"Pregnant woman with elevated AFP. Next step? U/S"
"Menopause::state = ↓ estrogen = ↑ incidence of urinary incontinence"
"Parvovirus B19::virus that can cause hydrops fetalis in infant, often mom has history of day-care work or flu-like symptoms earlier in pregnancy."
"Prolapse of urethra into vagina causing incontinence is suggestive of urethrocele::diagnosis"
"Most cervical cancer is squamous cell::squamous cell/adenocarcinoma"
"Fluid-filled endometrial cavity with no gestational sac and lower than expected increase in β-hCG levels is suggestive of ectopic::diagnosis"
"What test is used for Rh typing and antibody screening? Indirect coombs test"
"Fetal organomegaly is a potential complication of maternal gestational diabetes mellitus and is a result of fetal hyperinsulinemia"
"If the patient has already had a total hysterectomy and no history of cervical neoplasia, she can stop getting pap smears T::T/F"
"PainFUL contraction and cervix DILATION → Labor::Braxton-Hicks/Labor PainLESS contraction and NO cervical DILATION → Bracton-Hicks contractions::Braxton-Hicks/Labor"
"MS can lead to urge incontinence due to detrusor muscle hyperactivity MS can lead to overflow incontinence due to detrusor muscle hypoactivity"
"Upper posterior vaginal wall prolapse is suggestive of enterocele::condition"
"What is the protocol for an HIV+ patient getting pap smears? 21q1"
"A thick dividing membrane and two yolk sacs on prenatal ultrasound is indicative of a(n) di::mono/di-chorionic, di::mono/di-amniotic pregnancy"
"A thin dividing membrane and two yolk sacs on prenatal ultrasound is indicative of a(n) mono::mono/di-chorionic, di::mono/di-amniotic pregnancy"
"Detrusor muscle instability can cause urge incontinence"
"PPROM = 2::# doses of corticosteroids"
"5α-reductase deficiency = 46XY::genotype"
"Cervical cancer can spread and cause hydronephrosis due to compression of the ureters"
"Funneled lower uterine segment is suggestive of cervical incompetence::diagnosis"
"Maternal diabetes = polyhydramnios"
"Amniotic fluid embolism vs. PE time frame? During delivery / right afterwards vs. up to days afterwards"
"In vitro fertilization and fundus higher than expected for dates is suggestive of multiple gestation::diagnosis"
"↑ FSH with absent breast development and no pubic hair is managed with karyotype::next step"
"C"
"C"
"B"
"Breast abscess = fluctuant::fluctuant/non-fluctuant mass"
"A condition in which the fetal head is too large for the maternal pelvis, which can lead to failure to progress during 2nd stage of labor is suggestive of cephalopelvic disproportion::diagnosis"
"E"
"Lupus can cause uteroplacental insufficiency and lead to fetal growth restriction"
"Turner Syndrome can be diagnosed with ↑ LH and FSH::LH and FSH or GnRH levels"
"Treatment for newborn infant if mother displays symptoms of varicella < 5 days before delivery is varicella IVIG"
"What is the underlying pathophysiology that results in increased susceptibility to gonorrheal/chlamydial infection in younger patients? Increased cervical cell vulnerability to infection"
"In a woman with Factor V Leiden, what is the most common location of thrombosis that can cause fetal demise? Uteroplacental artery"
"Excessive tocolytic use = ↑ pulmonary edema"
"What should be done if fetal heart rate cannot be assessed using external methods? Apply a fetal scalp electrode to monitor fetal well-being"
"When should obese pts or pts with FamHx of DM be screened for gestational diabetes mellitus? ASAP"
"What is the fetal pole? The first direct imaging manifestation of the fetus"
"Can MgSO4 be used on myesthenia gravis pts? No"
"Besides preventing RDS, betamethasone (steroid) use decreases the risk of intracerebral hemorrhage and necrotizing enterocolitis"
"Placental abruption presents with high-frequency, low-intensity uterine contractions with a(n) hypertonic uterus"
"Miscarriage and stable vital signs can use misoprostol, surgical management, but also simply expectant management"
"Low pelvic pain, urinary freq/urgency. A(n) urinalysis::test should be performed to look for a(n) UTI::diagnosis"
"Tenderness confined to the uterus is the best predictor of hysterectomy succesfully eliminating chronic pelvic pain"
"40-50% of women with chronic pelvic pain have a history of physical/sexual abuse::social hx"
"Treatment of recurrent UTIs associated with sexual intercourse? Postcoital prophylaxis (TMP-SMX or nitrofurantoin)"
"What are the two different inpatient PID regimens? Cefoxitin/Cefotetan Doxycycline OR Clindamycin Gentamicin"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with suspected postpartum endometritis? Clindamycin and gentamicin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a well-appearing child that presents with a microcytic, hypochromic anemia with normal RBC count and RDW? Thalassemia minor"
"The first test to order for precocious puberty is wrist X-ray"
"Central precocious puberty is diagnosed when leuprolide (GnRH stimulation) causes an increase in LH production"
"What is the next step in management for precocious puberty if the pulsatile GnRH stimulation test increases LH levels, but the MRI is negative? Treat with continuous leuprolide"
"Primary amenorrhea, cubitus valgus and short height is suggestive of Turner syndrome::diagnosis"
"- Karyotype of Müllerian Agenesis = XX::XX/XY and ↔::↓/↑/↔ testosterone levels - Karyotype of Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome = XY::XX/XY and ↑::↓/↑/↔ testosterone levels"
"AIS::AIS/Müllerian agenesis = hair absent Müllerian agenesis::AIS/Müllerian agenesis = hair present"
"Premature ovarian failure is diagnosed with increased FSH levels"
"What should be suspected in long term fetal tachycardia (over 160)? Maternal fever or chorioamnionitis::2"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a laboring patient with ≥ 6 cm dilation that experiences no further dilation for 4 hours despite adequate contractions? Arrest of active labor"
"Treatment of prolonged vs. arrested active phase of labor? Oxytocin vs. C-section"
"On average, how long does the latent phase of labor last for nulliparous? 20 hours Multiparous? 14 hours"
"What is the definition of second stage arrest of labor in a nulliparous woman? Insufficient fetal descent after pushing for > 3 hours Multiparous? Insufficient fetal descent after pushing for > 2 hours"
"When is operative vaginal delivery (e.g. vacuum, forceps) indicated during the second-stage of labor? Protracted 2nd stage of labor 2nd-stage fetal heart rate abnormalitiesMaternal exhaustion, fetal distress, HOCM (cannot valsalva)"
"What is the recommended management for a laboring patient with > 6 cm dilation that experiences no further dilation for 4 hours and inadequate contractions? Cervical examination in 2 hours"
"What is the recommended management for a patient with arrest of active labor? Cesarean delivery"
"Asymmetric fetal growth restriction begins in the second/third trimester and is associated with conditions that cause placental insufficiency (e.g. hypertension, diabetes)"
"The effects of hyperemesis gravidarum are mostly to the mother::mother/fetus"
"What does this hysterosalpingogram show? Fibroid"
"What is the first-line test/imaging study to evaluate infertility in a patient with a history of pelvic inflammatory disease? Hysterosalpingogram"
"Any kind of uterine anomaly (septate, bicornuate, didelphys) can increase the risk of preterm labor, ectopic pregnancy, and cervical incompetence"
"Breast lump and ultrasound shows a mass, the aspirate is bloody, the cyst recurs, or she’s older than 30 years old next step: go to the mammogram and core needle biopsy route"
"Afebrile postpartum patient with a non-erythematous, fluctuant breast mass = galactocele::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young female that presents with a triad of polyarthralgia, tenosynovitis, and a vesiculopustular skin rash? Disseminated gonococcal infection"
"Primary herpes infections are usually preceded by viral-like symptoms preceding genital lesions"
"Motile trophozoites on wet mount = Trichomonas vaginalis::protozoa"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postmenopausal woman that presents with vulvar itching and thin, dry, white plaque-like vulvar skin? Lichen sclerosus"
"Likely diagnosis? HSV"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with colicky flank pain that radiates to the groin? Nephrolithiasis"
"Which stromal cell tumor is associated with female showing rapid signs of hirsutism/virilization? Sertoli-Leydig tumor"
"Sertoli-Leydig tumors cause ↑ testosterone and ↓ FSH/LH"
"What serum marker is characteristically elevated in choriocarcinoma? β-hCG"
"Peripartum cardiomyopathy typically causes rapid-onset systolic heart failure at > 36 weeks gestation or in the early postpartum period"
"What is the next step in management for a healthy pregnant woman at 37 weeks gestation that desires a vaginal delivery? Ultrasound reveals the fetus is in a frank breech presentation. External cephalic version"
"Risk factors for gestational diabetes include prior gestational diabetes, fetal macrosomia, recurrent pregnancy loss"
"Nulliparity and extremes of age (<20 or > 40) increase the risk for pre-eclampsia"
"What is the strongest risk factor for preterm delivery? Preterm delivery in a prior pregnancy"
"Breast mass > 30 years old after mammogram is managed with biopsy::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postpartum patient on post-operative day 2 that presents with fever, uterine tenderness, and purulent lochia? Postpartum endometritis"
"Dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, nodularity of uterosacral ligaments -- likely diagnosis? Endometriosis"
"Urge incontinence and 3 cm fibroid - what is causing the incontinence? Detrusor instability"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant woman with a suspected theca luteum cyst secondary to a complete molar pregnancy? Suction curettage of the hydatidiform mole"
"Hydatidiform mole is managed with suction curettage::treatment to evacuate the uterus"
"Diagnosis of umbilical cord prolapse is done with physical palpation::next step"
"Suspect intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy = get serum bile acid levels"
"Do women with IUD and PID require IUD removal prior to antibiotic therapy? No"
"Treatment for Staphylococcus aureus: MSSA::MRSA/MSSA: nafcillin, oxacillin, dicloxacillin MRSA::MRSA/MSSA: vancomycin, daptomycin, linezolid, ceftaroline"
"Preterm labor = labor before 37 weeks::gestational week"
"Normal postvoid residual volume in women is < 150 mL"
"What is the most common cause of UTI? Escherichia coli"
"What is the preferred imaging modality for diagnosis of acute appendicitis during pregnancy? Ultrasound (graded compression technique)"
"Doxylamine (unisom) and pyridoxine (B6) is the 1st line for nausea 2° to pregnancy::condition"
"What is the underlying cause of tinnitus and a metallic taste in the mouth after administration of epidural anesthesia? Intravascular injection of the anesthetic agent"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that has primary amenorrhea and a dysfunctional endocrine axis, but intact uterus? FSH levels"
"- PCP (phencyclidine) - Cocaine - Cannabis in milk Are all contraindications to breast feeding"
"Postterm pregnancy increases the risk for meconium-stained amniotic fluid"
"Gestational diabetes = hypocalcemia in infant"
"Nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia presents in women with chronic::acute/chronic hyper-androgen features (acne, hirsutism)"
"Rapid-onset virilization - evaluate an androgen-secreting tumor of ovarian or adrenal origin"
"Paget's disease of the breast::Paget's or inflammatory breast cancer = limited to the nipple/areola"
"What is management of a biophysical profile of <4? Urgent delivery"
"Systolic murmur, s3 gallop and JVD during pregnancy is normal::condition"
"Lymphangiosarcoma is a lymphatic vascular malignancy associated with persistent lymphedema such as post-radical mastectomy"
"\Oil cysts\\" and \\"foam cells\\" on mammography = fat necrosis::dx\""
"Vaginal atresia of the upper 1/3 of the vagina is caused by Müllerian agenesis::etiology"
"Strawberry cervix (erythematous with petechiae) = trichomonas vaginalis::infection"
"Patients with a positive BRCA risk assessment screen should first receive: Genetic counseling"
"What is management of severe pre-eclampsia if > 34 weeks? Deliver and Mg"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with suspected mild carpal tunnel syndrome? Wrist splinting"
"When (week gestation) should you repeat the Rh (D) antibody testing for all unsensitized (D)-negative women: 24- to 28-week's gestation"
"Infants of diabetic mothers are at increased risk of congenital malformations, such as cardiac and CNS, renal, and limb deformities"
"Abrupt fetal bradycardia / decelerations after rupture of membranes = umbilical cord prolapse::cause"
"Dimpled flesh-colored dome papules = molluscum contagiosum (often with HIV)::virus"
"Pregnant woman concerned about varicella vaccination status is managed with get IgG titers::next step"
"Can IUDs be used when someone has cervicitis? No"
"Alcohol cessation can reverse alcoholic cardiomyopathy T::T/F"
"In young patients, biscuspid aortic valve can cause aortic regurgitation (aortic stenosis in older patients)::regurgitation/stenosis"
"On chest x-ray, a classic \3\\" sign created by indentation of the aorta is suggestive of what pathology? Coarctation of the aorta\""
"What is the most important modifiable risk factor for AAA formation and expansion? Smoking"
"How does hypovolemic shock affect the following? PCWP: Decreased Cardiac index: Decreased SVR: Increased MvO2: Decreased"
"What antihypertensive can be used to prevent calcium channel blocker-induced peripheral edema? ACE inhibitors or ARBs"
"Where is the pain felt with osteoarthritis of the hips? Groin region"
"Back pain and the following: Dexamethasone (this pt has alarm s/s of cord compression)::what is the most appropriate first step"
"MSK back pain is managed with conservative management::next step"
"Symmetric aching in a belt-like distribution = MSK::type back pain"
"Heavy lifting → lightning pain shooting down leg (sciatica) and positive straight leg test is suggestive of herniation of disc::diagnosis"
"Vertebral disc herniation is characterized by herniation of the nucleus pulposus through the annulus fibrosus"
"Osteophytes present similarly to herniated disks (sciatica with and SLR), but are not associated with heavy lifting"
"Osteoporosis with palpable vertebral step-off and pinpoint tenderness = compression fracture::diagnosis?"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with back pain radiating to the buttocks and thighs? It is relieved when walking uphill or bicycling (hunched). Spinal stenosis (\neurogenic claudication\\")\""
"Imaging for back pain? X-ray → MRI"
"In spinal stenosis, leaning forward improves::improves/worsens pain"
"Back pain and relieved by passing stool = constipation::cause"
"Sciatica: a sharp or burning pain that radiates which typically radiates to the buttocks and to the posterior thigh"
"The knee jerk reflex tests spinal nerves L2-L4"
"Great toe = L5::dermatome level"
"Symptoms of nerve root S1 (herniation at L5/S1 disc) causes weak foot plantarflexion (tibial nerve) (cannot toe-walk) with loss of the Achilles (ankle) reflex"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly female that presents with back pain after lifting boxes? There is decreased spinal mobility 2/2 pain, which worsens with standing, walking, and lying down. There is tenderness to palpation at the fourth lumbar vertebra. Vertebral compression fracture"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with back pain after carrying heavy packages? Physical exam reveals paravertebral tenderness. (most common cause of acute back pain) Lumbosacral strain"
"Sciatica is most commonly caused by a(n) herniated disc"
"Chronic corticosteroid use can predispose to what MSK pathology? Osteoporosis and Avascular necrosis"
"Herniated disc = 1 month before doing radiographic imaging"
"Which physical exam technique is very sensitive for disc herniation? Straight-leg raise"
"What differentiates coma from persistent vegetative state? Coma has depressed cerebral function, Whereas persistent vegetative state has absent cerebral function"
"Locked-in syndrome::Syndrome includes a near total transection of the brainstem at the level of the pons::brainstem region leaving only CN III intact"
"Sudden, stepwise decline in executive function with cardiovascular risk factors (HTN, smoking, diabetes) = vascular dementia"
"What is the most important and first thing to ask a pt that complains of dizziness? What do you mean? (e.g. determine between presyncope and vertigo)"
"Central::Central/Peripheral vertigo = focal neurologic signs"
"Recurrent and reproducible vertigo lasting < 1 minute brought on by head movement is suggestive of BPPV::diagnosis"
"The Dix-Hallpike manuever is used to diagnose BPPV"
"The episodes of Ménière disease last longer::shorter/longer than BPPV"
"Diuretics and a no salt diet are effective in treating: A) Ménière Disease B) Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) C) Viral Labrynthitis D) Vestibular Neuronitis E) Brandt-Daroff disease A"
"Labyrinthitis/vestibular neuritis is managed with steroids::treatment"
"Cluster headache = usually uni::uni/bilateral Tension headache = usually bi::uni/bilateral Migraine headache = usually uni::uni/bilateral"
"Cluster headaches may be associated with lacrimation and rhinorrhea"
"Migraines typically present as a pulsating pain with nausea, photophobia, or phonophobia"
"What type of primary headache is associated with chronic analgesic use? Analgesic Rebound HA"
"Acute management of cluster headaches includes sumatriptan and 100% O2"
"What drug is used for prophylaxis of cluster headaches? Verapamil"
"Mild / moderate migraine headache = NSAIDs/tylenol::drug class Moderate / severe migraine headache = triptans/ergots::drug class"
"β-adrenergic blockers can be used for migraine::sx prophylaxis"
"Calcium channel blockers, such as verapamil, may be used for cluster headache::head pathology prophylaxis"
"What is the first step in management of pseudotumor cerebri (benign/idiopathic intracranial hypertension) in a patient taking OCPs? Withdrawal of the OCPs"
"What is the diagnostic test for pseudotumor cerebri (benign/idiopathic intracranial hypertension)? LP with increased opening pressure"
"Acetazolamide causes decreased production of CSF, which is useful in the management of pseudotumor cerebri"
"Pseudotumor cerebri is associated with vitamin A excess"
"Pseudotumor cerebri = most common in obese young women::population"
"Tension headaches present with bilateral pressure that radiates to the neck and are muscular in origin"
"Stiff neck, fever, headache, and mental status changes often indicate meningitis::condition"
"What cause of secondary headache involves fever, headache, and focal neurological deficits? Intracranial abscess"
"\Worst headache of my life\\" is suggestive of subarachnoid hemorrhage::condition\""
"LOC and post-ictal state (sleepiness, confusion) is suggestive of generalized seizure::diagnosis"
"What is the first line treatment for trigeminal neuralgia? Carbamazepine"
"Ethosuximide is the first line treatment for absence seizures"
"For a first time seizure, order an EEG and CT scan and consider the VITAMINS mnemonic to identify a cause: VascularInfectionTraumaAutoimmuneMetabolicIngestion or wIthdrawalNeoplasmPSych"
"Which two classifications help to categorize seizures? Generalized vs Partial Partial → Complex vs Simple"
"Seizure with alternating stiffness and shaking with LOC points to a(n) tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure::condition"
"Benzodiazepines (diazepam, lorazepam) are first line for acute attacks of status epilepticus"
"Thrombotic ischemic strokes are due to clot forming directly at the site of infarction, usually over a(n) atherosclerotic plaque"
"Which stroke subtype is characterized by early focal neurologic symptoms that worsen over minutes to hours with possible features of increased ICP (e.g. vomiting, headache, reduced alertness)? Intracerebral hemorrhagic stroke"
"Strokes involving the anterior cerebral artery typically cause motor and/or sensory loss that is most pronounced in the contralateral lower limb"
"Embolic stroke is most commonly due to atrial fibrillation::condition"
"What should be suspected/considered in a pt that develops painful neck pulsations and grabs their neck in pain? Embolic stroke 2/2 carotid dissection"
"Stroke is managed with noncontrast CT::next step to exclude hemorrhage before tPA can be given"
"Recent intracranial/spinal surgery, neoplasm, major GI or brain bleed are contraindications to tPA usage in ischemic/thrombotic stroke"
"Ischemic stroke ≤ 3 hrs. = tPA::drug ischemic stroke > 3 hrs. = aspirin::drug"
"Statins reduce risk of future vascular events in patients with a history of TIA or stroke"
"Ischemic::hemmorhagic or ischemic stroke patients = permissive hypertension"
"The Cushing reaction is a triad of hypertension, bradycardia, and respiratory depression due to increased intracranial pressure"
"Ischemic stroke: An infarction of the central nervous system with resultant neurologic deficit that persists beyond 24 hours or is interrupted by death within 24 hours"
"HEMORRHAGIC STROKE: Central nervous system (CNS) damage secondary to intracerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhage"
"What is the greatest non-modifiable risk factor for both ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke? Age"
"Ischemic strokes are generally classified as being of thrombotic or embolic origin"
"Strokes that affect the small branches (e.g. lenticulostriate) of the main arteries of the brain are termed lacunar infarcts or small-vessel strokes"
"Parkinson disease is characterized by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the basal ganglia"
"Patient presents with a pill-rolling resting tremor, cogwheel rigidity, bradykinesia, postural instability, and shuffling gait is suggestive of Parkinson's disease::diagnosis"
"Tremor and rigidity 2° to Parkinson disease is managed with benztropine (anticholinergic)::drug treatment"
"What is the treatment of choice for Parkinson's disease patients that are functional AND under 70 years old? Dopamine agonists (e.g. pramipexole, ropinirole)"
"What is the treatment of choice for Parkinson's disease patients that are non-functional OR over 70 years old? Carbidopa-levodopa"
"When Levodopa/carbidopa starts to wear off for Parkinson's disease, add: MAO inhibitors (selegiline)::drug class COMT inhibitors (capone)::drug class Deep Brain Stimulation (last resort)"
"Hereditary tremor worsened by movement is characteristic of a(n) essential tremor::condition"
"β-blockers are a first line treatment for essential tremor::physical symptom"
"Cerebellar dysfunction causing tremor with movement worsening closer to target is suggestive of intention tremor::diagnosis"
"Patient presents with chorea, dementia, and caudate/putamen degeneration is suggestive of  Huntington disease::diagnosis"
"Most common cause of optic neuritis is multiple sclerosis::condition"
"Demyelinating disease in young women (20-30) is multiple sclerosis::condition"
"What is the treatment of choice for acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis with disabling neurologic symptoms? Corticosteroids"
"Long-term treatment of multiple sclerosis with interferon β slows progression of disease; other options include glatiramer and natalizumab"
"Patient presents with rapidly progressive limb weakness that ascends following GI/URT infection Guillain-Barré syndrome"
"Guillain-Barré = ascending::ascending or descending paralysis/weakness and hyporeflexia"
"CSF analysis in Guillain-Barré syndrome will reveal albuminocytologic dissociation"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome can lead to respiratory arrest::fatal complication, so assess the patient's need for intubation"
"Bilateral ptosis, diplopia, dysphagia and muscle weakness is suggestive of myasthenia gravis::condition"
"Myasthenia gravis::condition is caused by antibodies binding ACh receptor on muscles"
"Autoimmune destruction of presynaptic Ca2+ channels is suggestive of Lambert-Eaton syndrome::condition"
"Proximal muscle weakness improving with use is suggestive of Lambert-Eaton syndrome::condition"
"ALS is a condition with ↑ survival with riluzole"
"Vertebrobasilar insufficiency::Stroke syndrome presents as dizziness, syncope, tinnitus, and a focal neurologic deficit"
"Pure motor Lacunar Strokes are caused by damage to what brain structure? Posterior limb of internal capsule"
"Lacunar stroke of the posterolateral thalamus results in sudden-onset contralateral loss involving all sensory modalities (pure sensory stroke)"
"What test is needed to definitely rule out subarachnoid hemorrhage in patients with a normal CT scan? Lumbar puncture"
"One contraindication to tPA administration in stroke patients is BP > 185/110 mmHg"
"Polycythemia vera is treated with repeated phlebotomy"
"Loop diuretics::diuretic class = ototoxicity"
"These are \red flags\\" for a secondary::primary/secondary cause of headache\""
"Pseudotumor cerebri = most common in obese, young women::population taking OCPs"
"Can a patient be diagnosed with brain death if they have intact deep tendon reflexes? Yes"
"Multiple white matter lesions separated by time and space is multiple sclerosis::condition"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome is treated with plasmapheresis or IVIG::treatment"
"Once a diagnosis of myasthenia gravis is established, patients should receive a CT or MRI of the chest to evaluate for thymoma"
"Unstable angina pectoris results from a(n) reduced resting coronary blood flow and presents with worsening angina or angina at rest"
"Stable angina is often due to atherosclerosis::process of coronary arteries with >70% stenosis"
"Non-STEMI is differentiated from unstable angina by cardiac troponin testing::diagnostic test"
"- Unstable angina and NSTEMI = 90% occlusion - STEMI = 100% occlusion"
"Myocardial infarction often presents with severe crushing chest pain lasting > 20 minutes that radiates to the left arm or jaw"
"Patient presents with chest pain and ST depressions on ECG with either: (-) troponins: Angina (unstable or stable) (+) troponins: NSTEMI"
"Assessment of cardiac risk and able to exercise = exercise stress test::test? Assessment of cardiac risk + not able to exercise = pharmacologic stress test::test?"
"1-2 vessel occluded = PCI::CABG/PCI > 3 vessels occluded or left main coronary dysfunction = CABG::CABG/PCI"
"Chest pain at rest or with ↑ intensity with exertion = unstable::stable/unstable angina"
"Substernal pressure/squeezing/crushing on chest is suggestive of angina::CV diagnosis"
"What is atypical angina? 2/3 characteristics of classic angina"
"Typical::Type anginal chest pain is: • Substernal • Worse with exertion • Better with rest or nitroglycerin"
"What is the recommended diagnostic test for patients with chest pain that have low-risk for CAD? No further testing"
"What is the recommended diagnostic test for patients with chest pain that have intermediate-risk for CAD and a normal ECG test? Exercise stress ECG"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for stable angina? Statins and Aspirin → help prevent cardiovascular events β-blockers → reduce myocardial oxygen demand Nitrates → treat acute anginal symptoms by decreasing preload"
"Which leads have ST elevation in an inferior myocardial infarction? II, III, and aVF"
"Which leads have ST elevation in an anterior myocardial infarction? Some or all of leads V1-V6"
"What leads show ST elevations or Q waves in a lateral myocardial infarction? I, aVL::2"
"Which lead(s) gives information about posterior wall infarctions? V1 and V2 (tall R waves and ST depression)"
"CK-MB is a cardiac biomarker that is useful for detecting reinfarction following acute MI"
"Ventricular fibrillation is the most common cause of sudden cardiac death within 2 days of acute MI"
"Which four acute MI treatments have been shown to reduce mortality, and should thus be part of maintenance therapy? Statin Aspirin β-blockers ACE inhibitors"
"Lacunar strokes often occur secondary to hyaline arteriosclerosis, a complication of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and smoking"
"REM sleep behavior disorder is associated with alpha-synuclein neurodegenerative disorders"
"What is the first-line treatment for pseudotumor cerebri (benign/idiopathic intracranial HTN)? Acetazolamide (± furosemide)"
"Lateral medullary (Wallenberg) syndrome is caused by occlusion of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery"
"Central post-stroke pain (thalamic pain) syndrome presents after a stroke with initial parethesias followed in weeks to months by abnormal, unpleasant sense of touch (dysesthesia) and hypersensitivity to pain (allodynia) on the contralateral side"
"What cause of stroke progresses acutely over minutes/hours with early onset of focal neurologic symptoms and increased signs of intracranial pressure (e.g. headache, vomiting, bradycardia)? Intracerebral hemorrhage"
"Torticollis is a form of dystonia that involves involuntary contraction of the neck (SCM)"
"Hemineglect = usually stroke of right (non-dominant) MCA::artery"
"Seizures can occur secondary to low blood sugar"
"Hyperdense MCA sign is suggestive of ischemic stroke::diagnosis"
"Muscle Strength Evaluation 1/5::#/5 = muscle flicker, but no movement"
"Muscle Strength Evaluation 2/5::#/5 = movement, but not against gravity"
"Muscle Strength Evaluation 3/5::#/5 = movement against gravity, but not resistance"
"Muscle Strength Evaluation 4/5::#/5 = some movement against resistance"
"C5-C6::spinal roots ↓ Axillary n.::major nerve ↓ Deltoid"
"Biceps brachii = musculocutaneous n.::innervation = C5-C6::spinal roots"
"C6-C7::spinal roots ↓ Radial n.::major nerve ↓ Extensor carpi radialis"
"Triceps = radial n.::innervation = C6-8::spinal root"
"C8-T1::spinal roots ↓ Median n. & ulnar n.::major nerve ↓ Flexor digitorum profundus"
"C8-T1::spinal roots ↓ Median n.::major nerve ↓ Abductor pollicis brevis (hand)"
"C8-T1::spinal roots ↓ Ulnar n.::major nerve ↓ Abductor digiti (hand)"
"Deep Tendon Reflexes 2/4::#/4 = normal"
"Deep Tendon Reflexes 4/4::#/4 = hyperactive reflex (clonus)"
"Deep Tendon Reflexes 3/4::#/4 = brisk reflex"
"Deep Tendon Reflexes 1/4::#/4 = trace reflex"
"Thumb = C6 (median nn)::dermatome level"
"Middle finger = C7::dermatome level"
"Quadriceps = femoral n.::innervation = L2-L4::spinal root"
"L4-L5::spinal roots ↓ Deep fibular n.::major nerve ↓ Tibialis anterior"
"L5-S1::spinal roots ↓ Deep fibular n.::major nerve ↓ Extensor hallucis"
"L5-S1::spinal roots ↓ Tibial n.::major nerve ↓ Flexor hallucis"
"S1-S2::spinal roots ↓ Tibial n.::major nerve ↓ Gastrocnemius/Soleus"
"Great toe = L5::dermatome levelLittle toe = S1::dermatome level"
"Achilles reflex = S1::spinal root"
"Patellar reflex = L4::spinal root"
"Nipple line = T4::dermatome level"
"Close eyelid = orbicularis oculi mm. = facial n.::cranial nerve"
"Paralysis of the lower right facial muscles is caused by a(n) left central facial n. lesion (corticobulbar tract)::lesion"
"Huntington disease is characterized by degeneration of GABAergic neurons in the caudate nucleus and putamen of the basal ganglia"
"Internuclear ophthalmoplegia results in inability to adduct the ipsi-lateral eye due to lesion of the MLF::pathway"
"The Charcot triad of multiple sclerosis may be remembered with the mnemonic \SIN\\": S: Scanning speechI: Intention tremor (also Incontinence and INO)N: Nystagmus\""
"Rupture of middle meningeal a. leads to epidural hematoma::condition"
"Subdural hematoma is most commonly seen among: elderly::population alcoholics::population infants (shaken baby)::population"
"How do the following laboratory values change in patients with an exogenous insulin use? Serum insulin: Increased C-peptide level: Decreased"
"How do the following laboratory values change in patients with an insulinoma? Serum insulin: Increased C-peptide level: Increased"
"↓ Glucose and ↑ C-peptide is caused by a(n) insulinoma::tumor or sulfonylurea drugs::condition"
"(-) ketones or acidosis and glucose > 800 mg/dL is suggestive of hyperglycemic hyperosmolar non-ketotic coma (HHNK)::condition"
"Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic nonketotic syndrome is treated with IV fluids and IV insulin"
"DKA = ↑ anion gap due to ketone bodies"
"Hyperglycemia / mannitol = hypertonic hyponatremia"
"Pseudohyponatremia (isotonic hyponatremia) is caused by hyperlipidemia/hyperproteinemia::condition"
"Hypotonic hyponatremia and ↑↑↑ Cr = renal failure::cause"
"What side effect may thiazide diuretics have on serum Na+ levels? Hyponatremia"
"CHF or cirrhosis = hypervolemic hyponatremia"
"↑ Aldosterone levels = ↓ urine sodium"
"What is the next best step in evaluating hypovolemic hypotonic hyponatremia? Measure urine Na+"
"Euvolemic hyponatremia with UOsm > 100 and urine Na > 40 is most likely SIADH::condition, hypothyroidism, or glucocorticoid deficiency"
"What is normal blood pressure for an adult? < 120/80 mmHg"
"What is the best initial therapy for hypertension? Lifestyle modifications Weight loss, Na restriction, exercise, dietary changes, smoking cessation"
"- Hypertensive urgency is defined as severe hypertension (≥180 / ≥120 mmHg) without acute end-organ damage - Hypertensive emergency is defined as severe hypertension (≥180 / ≥120 mmHg) with acute end-organ damage"
"Black and elderly patients respond well to hydrochlorothiazide and long-acting dihydropyridine CCBs for treatment of primary hypertension"
"What four drug classes are used in the treatment of primary (uncomplicated) hypertension in patients who are NOT African American? Thiazide diuretics ACE inhibitors ARBs Dihydropyridine CCBs"
"What is the recommended anti-hypertensive agent(s) for a patient with chronic kidney disease (regardless of age/race/proteinuria)? ACE-inhibitor/ARB"
"HTN and CAD/CHF: β-blockers::Rx? and ACE inhibitors/ARB::Rx?"
"Hypertension and diabetes = ACE inhibitor/ARB::first line drug class"
"One adverse effect associated with CCBs is peripheral edema, secondary to dilation of pre-capillary vessels (arterioles)"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs are useful for treating angina due to their ability to cause coronary vaso-dilation"
"What effect may ACE inhibitors have on potassium levels? Hyperkalemia"
"What effect may thiazide diuretics have on serum K+ levels? Hypokalemia"
"Thiazide diuretics can be used to prevent calcium kidney stones"
"Angioedema and dry cough = ACE-i::class of HTN med"
"β-blockers = bradycardia"
"Vasodilators = reflex tachycardia"
"Spironolactone = hyperkalemia and gynecomastia"
"Thiazide diuretics may be useful for attenuating bone loss in patients with osteoporosis"
"ACE-inhibitors/ARBs are first line treatment for hypertension in patients with what four conditions? CHF MI Renal failure Diabetes"
"ACE inhibitors and ARBs are contraindicated during pregnancy due to possible teratogenic effects"
"Nifedipine = CCB (dihydropyridine)::drug class"
"Do cardioselective β-blockers reduce mortality in CHF and post-MI? Yes"
"Hypertension and BPH = α1 blocker::drug class"
"What are the first-line antihypertensive agents that can be given during pregnancy? 1. α-methyldopa (for long-term treatment) 2. Labetalol 3. Hydralazine 4. Nifedipine"
"BP > 130/80 + > 10% ASCVD risk = lifestyle modification and add 1 med"
"Stage I hypertension is classified as systolic BP >130 or diastolic BP >80, while stage II hypertension is classified as systolic BP >140 or diastolic BP >90"
"Stage 2 hypertension should be treated with two medications"
"In obstructive lung disease, the FEV1/FVC is decreased"
"α1-antitrypsin deficiency is a genetic cause of emphysema that should be considered in a young patients with symptoms of obstructive lung disease and cirrhosis"
"Smoking cessation in COPD will reverse the lung damage F::T/F"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a COPD patient with JVD, hepatomegaly, and pitting edema? Cor pulmonale"
"All patients with acute COPD exacerbation should receive inhaled bronchodilators (albuterol/ipratropium nebulizer) and systemic corticosteroids"
"What is the diagnostic test for COPD? PFTs"
"Emphysema is characterized by the destruction of alveolar air sacs"
"Productive cough, wheezing and cyanosis is characteristic of chronic bronchitis::condition"
"Edema and cyanosis = chronic bronchitis::COPD"
"Barrel chest is suggestive of emphysema::condition"
"Pursed-lip breathing is seen in emphysema::condition"
"↑ FEV1 by > 15% after bronchodilator is diagnostic for asthma::condition"
"What is the first-line treatment for mild, stage I COPD? Short-acting bronchodilators"
"What is the recommended treatment for moderate, stage II COPD? Long-acting bronchodilator (tiotropium) and SABA"
"What is the recommended treatment for severe, stage III COPD? ICS and SABA and LABA"
"What is the most common trigger of acute COPD exacerbation? Upper respiratory infection (URI)"
"What is the \COPDER\\" mnemonic for the treatment of COPD? Corticosteroids Oxygen Prevention Dilators Experimental Rehabilitation\""
"Lesions to CN III (oculomotor) result in ptosis and a \down and out\\" gaze\""
"The oculomotor nerve passes between the SCA::artery and PCA::artery and can be compressed by an aneurysm of the posterior communicating artery"
"Headache, vision changes and tinnitus (whoosing sound) with normal mental status is suggestive of pseudotumor cerebri (idiopathic intracranial hypertension)::condition"
"Symptoms of intracranial hypertension includes headache worse at morning, nausea/vomiting, and mental status changes"
"Symptoms of intracranial hypertension worsen::worsen/better with leaning forward, Valsalva, cough"
"Headache, fever and focal neuro deficits / seizures following otitis media is suggestive of brain abscess::diagnosis"
"Brain abscess = CT/MRI::imaging modality showing Ring enhancing lesion"
"Prior infection leading to headache, fever/leukocytosis, periorbital edema and diplopia is suggestive of Cavernous sinus thrombosis::syndrome"
"Parasympathetic output = peripheral::central/peripheral CN III Oculomotor output = central::central/peripheral CN III"
"\Rule of the Pupil\\" CN3 lesion (down/out) and pupil dilation = PCOM aneurysm::PCOM aneurysm or diabetes CN3 lesion (down/out) + no pupil dilation = diabetes::PCOM aneurysm or diabetes\""
"Empty sella syndrome is a benign enlargement of the sella turcica that compresses the pituitary gland"
"Solitary brain metastasis = Surgical resection::radiation/surgery Multiple brain metastases = whole brain radiation therapy::radiation/surgery"
"In addition to excess vitamin A, growth hormone and tetracyclines can cause idiopathic intracranial hypertension::diagnosis"
"JVD and pitting edema = right::right/left sided heart failure"
"Orthopnea, exertional and nocturnal dyspnea is suggestive of Left HF::diagnosis"
"What laboratory finding has a high sensitivity for the diagnosis of congestive heart failure? Elevated brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels"
"Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) is diagnosed with echocardiography::echocardiography/ECG"
"↓ Ejection fraction = systolic::systolic/diastolic dysfunction"
"First Line CHF Therapy (Stage 1) ACE inhibitors / ARBs::drug class β-blockers (Carvedilol)::drug class"
"CHF and pulmonary edema = loop diuretics::drug class"
"Stage 3 Heart Failure (difficulty with exertion) = add spironolactone or BiDil"
"Inotropes (e.g. milrinone, dobutamine) = severe::stage heart failure"
"Reduce intake of [Na] and H2O in heart failure to reduce fluid overload"
"Ischemic heart failure = add aspirin and statin"
"One cause of heart failure is due to hypertension causing ↑ TPR"
"Coronary artery disease is the most common cause of heart failure, which leads to reduced contractility, stroke volume, and therefore cardiac output"
"What class of drugs may inhibit the actions of loop diuretics? NSAIDs (decreased prostaglandin synthesis)"
"Dimercaprol, calcium disodium EDTA, and DMSA are used to treat lead poisoning"
"Restless leg syndrome = discomfort during rest::rest/movement and worse at night::day/night"
"Ramsay Hunt syndrome is a combination of herpes zoster (shingles) and facial/vestibulocochlear nerve palsy"
"Cataracts are painless, often bilateral, opacifications of the lens"
"Glaucoma is characterized by optic disc atrophy with characteristic cupping"
"Dry macular degeneration is characterized by drusen, which is deposition of yellowish extracellular material in between Bruch membrane and retinal pigment epithelium"
"What nerve injury is caused by tight clothing, obesity, and pregnancy? Lateral femoral cutaneous (\meralgia paresthetica\\")\""
"UMN and LMN::UMN/LMN/Both lesions present with weakness"
"Tetanus toxin (tetanospasmin) travels via retrograde transport to the spinal cord"
"Does cleavage of SNARE via botulinum toxin prevent release of excitatory or inhibitory neurotransmitters? Excitatory (thus causing flaccid paralysis)"
"If the lesion in Brown-Sequard syndrome occurs above T1, patients may present with ipsi-lateral Horner syndrome (due hypothalamospinal pathway damage)"
"Tabes dorsalis presents with decreased/absent deep tendon reflexes and brief, shooting/burning pain"
"How long do episodes of trigeminal neuralgia (tic douloureux) typically last? seconds up to a minute"
"Hypertensive intraparenchymal hemorrhage typically occurs in the basal ganglia (especially putamen) and the adjacent internal capsule; other common sites include the cerebellum, thalamus, and pons"
"Multiple sclerosis may cause optic neuritis, resulting in monocular vision loss, painful eye movements, and afferent pupillary defect (Marcus Gunn pupils)"
"Multiple sclerosis may present with transverse myelitis, which results in motor and sensory loss below the level of the lesion, often with autonomic (bladder and bowel) dysfunction"
"What CSF analysis finding is useful for diagnosis of multiple sclerosis? Oligoclonal bands of IgG"
"Normal pressure hydrocephalus often presents with a characteristic magnetic gait"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with rapidly progressive dementia with prominent myoclonus? Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD)"
"Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is characterized by periodic sharp wave complexes on EEG"
"Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a malignant, high-grade tumor of astrocytes::cell type"
"Glioblastoma multiforme is a CNS tumor that usually arises in the cerebral hemispheres and characteristically crosses the corpus callosum (\butterfly glioma\\")\""
"What is a worrisome sequelae of pseudotumor cerebri if left untreated? Blindness"
"Which movement disorder presents as a high-frequency tremor with sustained posture (e.g. outstretched arms), often with a family history of tremor? Essential tremor"
"Essential tremor is worsened with movement or when anxious (relieved or worsened)"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome is associated with increased CSF protein, normal CSF WBC, RBC, and glucose count"
"Cauda equina syndrome occurs due to compression of spinal nerve roots from L2 and below"
"Management of cauda equina syndrome involves emergent MRI::imaging and administration of glucocorticoids"
"Central retinal artery occlusion is most commonly caused by an embolized atherosclerotic plaque from the ipsilateral internal carotid artery"
"Wilson disease is characterized by decreased serum ceruloplasmin and increased urinary copper"
"Myasthenia gravis classically manifests as fatigable ocular (e.g. ptosis, diplopia) and bulbar (e.g. dysarthria) muscle weakness"
"What symptom is characteristic of early Alzheimer's disease? Short-term memory loss"
"What is the likely location of hemorrhage in a hypertensive patient that presents with occipital headache, neck stiffness, nausea/vomiting, and ipsilateral hemiataxia without hemiparesis? Cerebellum"
"The initial diagnostic workup of a first-time seizure in an adult should include laboratory tests to evaluate for metabolic and toxic causes"
"Which stroke subtype is characterized by abrupt neurological symptoms that are typically maximal at the start? Embolic ischemic stroke"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with worsening focal back pain, especially at night, and bilateral lower extremity weakness/sensory loss, and gait ataxia for the past week? Spinal cord compression"
"Alcoholic cerebellar degeneration typically affects patients with extensive alcohol abuse and presents with progressive gait instability, truncal ataxia, difficulty with rapid alternating movements, hypotonia, and intention tremor"
"Alcoholic cerebellar degeneration is caused by damage to the Purkinje cells in the anterior cerebellar vermis"
"Manifestations of acute angle-closure glaucoma include unilateral eye pain with conjunctival injection and a(n) dilated::size, non-reactive pupil"
"Acute angle-closure glaucoma is characterized by sudden, painful vision loss with \halos\\" around lights\""
"What neurological pathology typically presents with nerve damage in two or more nerves in separate parts of the body in a patient with vasculitis? Mononeuritis multiplex"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for tabes dorsalis? IV penicillin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops persistent headache, confusion, difficulty concentrating, and poor sleep for the past month after hitting their head? Post-concussive syndrome"
"What neurological pathology manifests as Parkinsonism with orthostatic hypotension, impotence, incontinence, or other autonomic dysfunction? Multiple system atrophy (Shy-Drager syndrome)"
"What is the pharmacotherapy of choice for the treatment of acute agitation in elderly patients (e.g. delirium)? Typical or atypical antipsychotics (e.g. low dose haloperidol)"
"Typical antipsychotics should not be used in patients with Lewy body dementia because they may exhibit neuroleptic hypersensitivity"
"What is the recommended treatment for Wernicke encephalopathy? Thiamine prior to or along with glucose administration"
"What pathogen is the most common cause of spinal epidural abscess? Staphylococcus aureus (65%)"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice for spinal epidural abscess? MRI of the spine"
"What retinal pathology is associated with a \blood and thunder\\" appearance on funduscopy? Central retinal vein occlusion\""
"Which anti-epileptic medications may be used for migraine prophylaxis? Topiramate and valproic acid::2"
"Riluzole is a(n) glutamate inhibitor that is approved for use in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)"
"Putaminal hemorrhage often results in contralateral hemiparesis and hemisensory loss due to involvement of the adjacent internal capsule"
"What time of day is typically associated with worsening of delirium? Nighttime (\sundowning\\")\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with monocular vision loss accompanied by \washed-out\\" color vision"
"What is the next step in management for a patient that presents with warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage? IV vitamin K and prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC)"
"Common early side effects of levodopa/carbidopa include dizziness, headache, agitation, and visual hallucinations"
"Cortical laminar necrosis is a hallmark of prolonged seizures and can lead to persistent neurologic deficits and recurrent seizures"
"What is the initial imaging study of choice in a patient that presents to the ED after an unprovoked first seizure? CT head without contrast"
"The most common site of ulnar nerve entrapment is where the ulnar nerve lies in the medial epicondylar groove (elbow)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a head CT revealing numerous small punctate hemorrhages at the gray-white junction? Diffuse axonal injury"
"Does cauda equina syndrome present with upper or lower motor neuron symptoms? Lower only"
"Does conus medullaris syndrome present with upper or lower motor neuron symptoms? Both upper and lower"
"Foodborne botulism in adults is associated with ingestion of improperly canned foods and aged seafood (e.g. cured fish)"
"A \steppage gait\\" secondary to foot drop is often caused by L5 radiculopathy and common/deep peroneal neuropathy\""
"What is the next step in management for a patient that develops a cardioembolic stroke secondary to bacterial endocarditis? IV antibiotics and observation"
"Tumor of anterior pituitary, ↓ FSH/LH and bitemporal hemianopsia is suggestive of Craniopharyngioma::diagnosis"
"Putamen and caudate nucleus = striatum::structure"
"Putamen and globus pallidus = lentiform nucleus::structure"
"Cauda equina syndrome = asymmetric::symmetric/asymmetric motor weakness Conus medullaris syndrome = symmetric motor weakness"
"Conus medullaris syndrome has a(n) earlier::earlier/later onset of bowel/bladder dysfunction compared to cauda equina syndrome"
"Radiculopathy is a spinal pathology described as compression of nerve roots causing pain, weakness, and numbness of limbs"
"Trismus is a feature of Tetanus that is also referred to as Lockjaw"
"HIV with CD4 < 100 and multiple ring-enhancing brain lesions = toxoplasma gondii::infection"
"Myasthenic crisis is often precipitated by infection, surgery, and medications and can lead to severe respiratory muscle weakness and respiratory failure"
"The NYHA classification of heart failure is based on degree of functional limitation (i.e. activity tolerance)"
"The three major risk factors for thrombosis are stasis in blood flow, hypercoagulability, and endothelial cell damage (Virchow triad)"
"The most reliable clinical sign of DVT is unilateral leg swelling"
"DVT = doppler ultrasound::diagnostic test"
"Low risk of PE = D-dimer::test High risk of PE = CTA or V/Q::test"
"Imaging test of choice for PE if patient has renal failure (GFR < 30) = V/Q scan (showing normal V and low Q)"
"What is the recommended management for a patient with a DVT and contraindications to anticoagulation (e.g. warfarin) or recurrent DVTs? IVC filter"
"Pulmonary embolism most commonly seen: 1) Chest x-ray: normal 2) ECG finding: sinus tachycardia 3) Acid/base: respiratory alkalosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with sudden-onset pleuritic chest pain, hemoptysis, dyspnea, and the CT findings below? Pulmonary embolism"
"Pleuritic::Type chest pain is seen in pulmonary embolism due to infarction and inflammation of the lungs and pleura"
"What is the treatment for massive, life-threatening pulmonary embolism? Intra-arterial tPA or thrombectomy"
"MRSA and Pseudomonas = hospital-acquired pnuemonia treated with Pip/Tazo (Zosyn) and Vancomycin"
"What is the most common predisposing factor to developing pneumonia due to S. aureus? Viral URI"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult that presents with headache, fatigue, persistent dry cough, and mild sore throat? There is a faint macular rash on the arms/legs and increased interstitial markings on CXR. Mycoplasma pneumoniae infection (atypical pneumonia)"
"Severe fever, cough and myalgias is suggestive of influenza::diagnosis"
"Fever and cough = CXR::imaging and SpO2"
"Pneumonia: infection of lung parenchyma caused by agents that include bacteria, viruses, fungi, and parasites"
"What type of chest pain is often associated with pneumonia? Pleuritic chest pain"
"Pneumocystis pneumonia can present with a \bilateral"
"What is the rapid test for diagnosing Legionnaires' disease? Urine antigen test"
"When treating PCP in HIV patients, TMP-SMX should be administered with corticosteroids::drug if hypoxic"
"Treatment of non-massive PE is Xa inhibitor (acute and long term)"
"Massive PE = PE with hypotension Sub-massive PE = PE with evidence of right heart strain"
"Hospital acquired pneumonia = pneumonia > 48 hours after admission"
"Patients with suspected aspiration pneumonia should be treated with antibiotics that include anaerobic coverage"
"Hydralazine combined with a(n) nitrate provides a(n) mortality benefit for African Americans with heart failure"
"What drugs improve survival in dilated cardiomyopathy/CHF? ACE-i or ARB / β-Blockers (Carvedilol) / Spironolactone::3"
"SAAG = serum albumin::value - ascites albumin::value"
"ALT > 1000 U/L likely indicates: Acute viral hepatitis::condition Drug toxicity (acetaminophen)::condition Shock liver (ischemia d/t hypotension)::condition Autoimmune hepatitis::condition"
"Intranodal block (at AV node) = 1st degree AV block or 2nd degree AV block Mobitz type 1 (Wenckebach)::arrhythmia"
"Very short RP interval = AV node reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT)::arrhythmia"
"Widened/slurred QRS (delta wave) and ↓ PR interval is suggestive of Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome::arrhythmia"
"Uncorrelated P waves/QRS complexes (ventricular > atrial rate) = ventricular tachycardia::arrhythmia"
"Infra-nodal block (below AV node) = Mobitz type II (2° AV block)::arrhythmia or 3° AV block::arrhythmia"
"Pathologic Q waves are only seen late after a(n) STEMI::NSTEMI/STEMI"
"(+) QRS in lead I (-) QRS in lead II frontal axis for ventricular depolarization = left deviation::alignment"
"(-) QRS in lead I (+) QRS in lead II or aVF frontal axis of depolarization = right deviation::alignment"
"(+) QRS in lead I (+) QRS in lead II frontal axis = normal axis::alignment"
"Hypercalcemia = short QT Hypocalcemia = long QT"
"Atrial fibrillation is characterized by a chaotic and erratic baseline with no discrete P waves in between irregularly spaced QRS complexes on ECG"
"Right bundle branch block::Condition may result in:"
"Left bundle branch block::Condition may result in:"
"How do you calculate the heart rate on an ECG? 300 / # big boxes"
"The p wave aVR should always be (-)"
"Abnormal P wave morphology and tachycardia = ectopic atrial tachycardia::arrhythmia"
"Regular \sawtooth\\" baseline with regular P:QRS ratio (e.g. 2:1"
"Multifocal atrial tachycardia requires at least three different P-wave morphologies to diagnose"
"Third Degree (Complete) AV Block has regular::regular/irregular RR intervals atrial rate >::>/< ventricular rate"
"What type of AV block involves completely regular RR intervals with dissociated P and QRS complexes? 3rd degree AV block"
"RA enlargement::Condition may result in:"
"LA enlargement::Condition may result in:"
"1st degree AV block is characterized by a PR interval > 200 msec on ECG"
"LV hypertrophy::Condition may result in:"
"Past STEMI::Condition may result in:"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes wide QRS and peaked T waves on ECG along with muscle weakness? Hyperkalemia"
"Side effects of metoclopramide include extrapyramidal effects such as acute dystonia, akathisia, parkinsonian features, and tardive dyskinesia as a result of central D2 blockade"
"Dopamine agonists::drug class = ↑ risk of \risky behaviors\\" (gambling"
"Brown-Sequard::dx"
"What kind of renal disease occurs in infective endocarditis? Glomerulonephritis (immune complex-mediated)"
"Alzheimer disease = generalized cortical atrophy but also temporal lobe atrophy"
"Foot drop and sensory loss in dorsum of foot = common fibular/peroneal nerve injury"
"Tricyclic antidepressants antagonize the α1 adrenergic receptor"
"TCAs are relatively contraindicated in elderly patients due to severe anticholinergic and antihistamine effects"
"Phenytoin and woman who wants to get pregnant with low risk of seizure recurrence is managed with slowly tapering phenytoin::next step"
"First step in workup of anemia: Microcytic → ferritin Normocytic → reticulocyte count Macrocytic → blood smear"
"The symptoms of anemia center around low oxygen delivery, which is based on hemoglobin, percent saturation, and cardiac output"
"The two megaloblastic anemias are folate deficiency and vitamin B12 deficiency and present with hypersegmented (>5 lobes) neutrophils due to impaired DNA synthesis"
"What is the most common cause of vitamin B12 deficiency? Pernicious anemia (lack of intrinsic factor)"
"Causes of non-megaloblastic macrocytic anemia include liver disease and alcoholism"
"How do the following laboratory values change in iron deficiency anemia? Serum iron: decreased TIBC: increased % Saturation: decreased Ferritin: decreased"
"Anemia of chronic disease results in: ↓::↑↓↔ serum iron ↓::↑↓↔ transferrin (TIBC) ↑::↑↓↔ ferritin"
"Thalassemia is an anemia due to decreased synthesis of globin chains"
"Thalassemia, when major, is treated with blood transfusions and prophylactic deferoxamine to prevent hemosiderosis"
"Sideroblastic anemia is associated with ringed sideroblasts on bone marrow biopsy, which are iron-laden mitochondria that form a ring around the nucleus of erythroid precursors"
"The diagnosis of sickle cell disease can be confirmed with hemoglobin electrophoresis"
"Hemolytic anemia presents with low haptoglobin, high bilirubin, and high LDH"
"Hereditary spherocytosis most commonly involves defects in ankyrin, spectrin, band 3.1, or protein 4.2 which are proteins that anchor the cytoskeleton to RBC membrane"
"(+) Coombs test is suggestive of autoimmune hemolytic anemia::condition"
"Warm agglutinin = IgG::IgM/IgG autoimmune hemolytic anemia Cold agglutinin = IgM::IgM/IgG autoimmune hemolytic anemia"
"Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria may be confirmed via flow cytometry, which detects a lack of CD-55 and CD-59"
"What is the cause of pernicious anemia? Autoantibodies against gastric intrinsic factor or parietal cells"
"Folate deficiency = oral::oral/IM supplementation B12 deficiency = IM::oral/IM supplementation"
"Diagnosis of β-thalassemia minor is confirmed by an isolated increase in HbA2 (> 3.5%) on electrophoresis"
"Sickle cell anemia::diagnosis"
"qSOFA criteria requires ≥ 2 of the following: RR > 22 SBP < 100 AMS"
"Sepsis is an acute life-threatening condition characterized by organ dysfunction due to a dysregulated immune response to infection"
"Severe purulent skin infections are managed with vancomycin::treatment"
"Pip/tazo (zosyn) and cefepime are used in sepsis to cover for pseudomonas::bacteria"
"Vancomycin or linezolid/daptomycin are used in sepsis to cover for MRSA::bacteria"
"Patients with upper::upper/lower GI bleeding often have an elevated blood urea nitrogen"
"Bleeding esophageal varices is managed with IVF, octreotide, and antibiotics followed by endoscopic band ligation::surgical treatment"
"V/Q scan to help diagnose PE requires normal ventilation::factor to begin with"
"Iron supplements should always be given with stool softeners::general medication class"
"Resting tremor = worse at rest Essential tremor = worse with movement; hereditary"
"Benztropine and trihexyphenidyl are antimuscarinic agents used to treat Parkinsonism, especially tremor and rigidity"
"HLA-DRB1 and vitamin D deficiency are associated with multiple sclerosis::diagnosis"
"Herpes encephalitis presents with: ↑ lymphocytes and RBCs ↔ glucose ↑ protein"
"HSV-1 is a Herpesvirus that may cause edema and hemorrhagic necrosis of the temporal lobe of the brain"
"Diagnosis of HSV encephalitis = PCR of HSV DNA in CSF"
"MG::Polymyositis/MG has fluctuating symptoms throughout the day"
"What drug class do clopidogrel, ticagrelor, and prasugrel belong to? ADP (P2Y12) receptor inhibitors"
"Rapidly progressive dementia and myoclonus, sharp wave complexes on EEG Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (dead within year)::diagnosis"
"Hemorrhagic strokes appear immediately on non-contrast CT as white hyperdense::description regions in the brain parenchyma"
"Hemiplegic migraine::diagnosis"
"Botulinism is managed with anti-toxin::treatment"
"The flaccid paralysis in Clostridium botulinum is a(n) descending::ascending or descending paralysis"
"What is the recommended treatment for organophosphate or acetylcholinesterase inhibitor poisoning? Atropine, then pralidoxime"
"Spinal cord compression presents with signs of upper motor neuron dysfunction distal to site of compression"
"Parkinson's disease = hypokinetic gait"
"Transdermal fentanyl patch is used as long-term pain management"
"Should addiction history affect pain management? No"
"Somatic (aka peritoneal)::Visceral/Somatic pain = The pain is constant, localizes to a specific part of the abdomen, and is worse with movement"
"One clinical feature of aortic regurgitation is hyperdynamic circulation due to increased (widened)::↑/↓ pulse pressure"
"Premature discontinuation of antiplatelet therapy is the strongest predictor of stent thrombosis within the first 12 months"
"Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP) is a good approximation of left atrial pressure"
"A loud P2 implies pulmonary hypertension::pathology"
"Vasovagal syncope = bradycardia with sinus arrest"
"What effect may loop diuretics have on serum K+ and Mg2+ levels? Decreased"
"The CHA2DS2-VASc score is useful for assessing thromboembolic risk and anticoagulation needs in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation::diagnosis"
"One complication that may occur ~ 3-5 days post-MI is papillary muscle rupture, which often causes mitral regurgitation"
"High intensity statins are recommended for: 1) Patients < 75 years old with clinical ASCVD::disease 2) Patients with LDL > 190 mg/dL::level 3) Diabetics::Diabetics/Non-diabetics aged 40-75 with 10 yr. risk of ASCVD > 7.5%"
"Degeneration of sinus node and replacement with fibrous tissue is suggestive of sick sinus syndrome::diagnosis"
"Sinus bradycardia with delayed/dropped p waves is suggestive of sick sinus syndrome::diagnosis"
"What is the most common location of ectopic foci that cause atrial fibrillation? Pulmonary veins"
"Does the DASH diet or decreasing dietary sodium decrease blood pressure more? DASH diet"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy may be seen during the last month of pregnancy or within five months of childbirth (\peripartum cardiomyopathy\\")\""
"A systolic-diastolic abdominal bruit is indicative of renal artery stenosis"
"A continuous machinery murmur best heard over the left interscapular area is indicative of coarctation of the aorta"
"Pulmonary edema is found in AR::AR/cardiac tamponade"
"Aortic stenosis = soft s2"
"Kussmaul's sign = ↑::↑/↓ JVP during inspiration::inspiration/expiration"
"Pericardial effusion = diminished heart sounds and difficult to palpate maximal apical impulse"
"Pulsus bisferiens (2 strong peaks) carotid pulse is seen in aortic regurgitation::condition"
"How are the following diagnostic parameters affected in congestive heart failure? Left ventricular end-diastolic volume: increased Systemic vascular resistance:: increased"
"What pathologic RBC is seen with end-stage renal disease and liver disease? Echinocyte (\burr cell\\")\""
"Coronary steal syndrome occurs when administration of coronary artery vasodilators::vasodilator/vasoconstrictor such as adenosine and dipyridamole shunts blood towards well-perfused areas, increasing ischemia in post-stenotic regions"
"What is the best first step in treating acute atrial fibrillation in a hemodynamically unstable patient? Synchronized cardioversion (shock)"
"The most common cause of mitral regurgitation in developed countries is MVP::valvular disorder, which is due to myxomatous valve degeneration"
"Lupus is commonly associated with pericarditis::cardiac manifestation"
"What electrolyte abnormality parallels severity of congestive heart failure? Hyponatremia"
"Do premature ventricular complexes resemble typical ventricular contractions on ECG? No, they present as a wide QRS"
"Asymptomatic PVCs is managed with no treatment::next step Symptomatic PVCs is managed with β-blocker / CCB::next step"
"Polyneuritis (tingling, numbness) and high output cardiac failure (dilated cardiomyopathy) = thiamine::vitamin deficiency"
"Vasospastic (Prinzmetal) angina is associated with raynaud's and migraine; they all involve hyperactivity of smooth muscle"
"All patients with syncope should receive a(n) ECG::test to find arrhythmias"
"Autonomic dysfunction is one cause of orthostatic hypotension and syncope"
"GI/esophageal causes of chest pain = non-exertional, lasting > 1 hour, postprandial symptoms, associated heartburn/dysphagia, and relieved by antireflux therapy"
"One factor that predisposes to digoxin toxicity is renal insufficiency, which decreases drug excretion"
"Alternative to β-blocker as treatment for stable angina? Non-DHP CCB"
"Patients with an arrhythmic cause of syncope usually have underlying structural heart disease and do not::do/do not have any prodromal symptoms prior to the episode"
"Diastolic dysfunction (heart failure) occurs due to decreased compliance leading to ↑::↑/↓ LVEDP"
"Cocaine may induce coronary vasospasm, which can cause myocardial ischemia and Prinzmetal angina"
"AV node reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT)::AVNRT/AVRT = atria and ventricles ARE NOT a part of the circuit"
"Masked hypertension describes normal BP readings in clinic but elevated average blood pressure throughout the day."
"Tension pneumothorax = decreased venous return and preload"
"A conduction abnormality (e.g. AV block) in setting of infective endocarditis suggests what? Perivalvular abscess"
"Pulseless electrical activity (PEA) is the presence of an organized rhythm (e.g. atrial fibrillation) without a palpable pulse"
"Epigastric pain and vomiting can be atypical presentations of acute coronary syndrome"
"- Papillary muscle rupture will present with findings of left heart failure - Interventricular septum rupture will present with findings of left and right heart failure"
"S3 gallop::heart sounds After hearing this, the next step should be giving IV diuretics for symptomatic relief"
"stable supraventricular tachycardia (e.g. AVNRT) is managed with vagal maneuvers or adenosine::pharm treatment unstable supraventricular tachycardia (e.g. AVNRT) is managed with cardioversion"
"Narrow QRS, HR > 150, and no regular p waves +/- retrograde p waves is suggestive of SVT::diagnosis"
"adenosine::adenosine/amiodarone = stable and narrow QRS tachycardia > 150 bpm amiodarone = stable + wide QRS tachycardia > 150 bpm"
"Cardioversion in atrial fibrillation > 48 hours requires echo::diagnostic test and anticoagulation (warfarin or NOAC)::pharm"
"Avoid nodal blockers (e.g. adenosine) in WPW::type of SVT"
"2nd degree Mobitz type II AV block and complete heart block are often treated with a(n) pacemaker"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy = systolic::diastolic/systolic dysfunction"
"β-myosin heavy-chain (sarcomere) defect is associated with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy::condition"
"Restrictive cardiomyopathy = diastolic::diastolic/systolic dysfunction"
"What is the most common cause of constrictive pericarditis in the United States? Viral or idiopathic (>40%)"
"Pericardial effusion / tamponade = echo::diagnostic tool"
"Cardiac tamponade is a(n) right-sided heart failure"
"Constrictive pericarditis = diastolic HF"
"Pericardiac knock (early diastolic sound, ~ S3) is heard in constrictive pericarditis::condition"
"What is the treatment for constrictive pericarditis? Diuretics first; then pericardiectomy"
"Patients with an LDL ≥ 190 mg/dL are recommended to begin high-intensity statin therapy"
"Statins::drug class = inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase"
"The most common side effect of statins is myopathy, which occurs weeks to months after starting therapy"
"Statins may cause mild hepato-toxicity, and thus mild elevations in liver function tests"
"Statins::drug class = ↑ risk of rhabdomyolysis"
"Statin and myositis or hepatitis → stop statin::next step"
"Flushing and pruritus secondary to niacin therapy is caused by prostaglandin-induced peripheral vasodilation and can be treated with aspirin::drug"
"ASCVD patients age > 75 or diabetics with < 7.5% ASCVD risk can be put on a(n) moderate-intensity statin"
"What age range of diabetic patients should be started on statin therapy? 40 - 75 years old"
"LDL < 70 and no disease = no statin::statin/no statin"
"High intensity statins = atorvastatin::statin and rosuvastatin::statin"
"What GI side effect is associated with ezetimibe? Diarrhea/steatorrhea"
"Bile acid resins frequently cause GI side effects, such as constipation and bloating"
"Fibrates may cause myopathy as an adverse effect, especially when combined with statins"
"What drug class do gemfibrozil and fenofibrate belong to? Fibrates"
"Which thyroid abnormality is associated with hyperlipidemia (e.g. hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia)? Hypothyroidism::Hypothyroidism/Hyperthyroidism"
"Vasovagal syncope can be reproduced by stimulating visceral organs, carotid stimulation, or emotional disturbances (blood)"
"Orthostatic hypotension can be due to volume depletion or autonomic nervous system dysfunction"
"Orthostatic hypotension is managed with rehydrate::treatment"
"When syncope presents suddenly upon exertion, what is most likely cause? Mechanical obstruction to blood flow (valvular dysfunction)"
"Sudden syncope without prodrome = arrhythmias::CVS related Sudden syncope without prodrome and focal neurologic deficit = neurogenic::cause"
"Vasovagal syncope is caused by a result of vagus nerve overstimulation which leads to bradycardia and hypotension, which then causes enough cerebral hypoperfusion to cause syncope"
"Aortic stenosis may cause microangiopathic hemolytic anemia as RBCs are damaged while crossing the calcified valve, producing schistocytes"
"What is the only (common) heart murmur that is susceptible to balloon valvuloplasty? Mitral stenosis"
"A murmur with an opening snap is indicative of what pathology? Mitral stenosis"
"A(n) decreased interval between S2 and the opening snap sounds of a mitral stenosis murmur correlates with increased disease severity"
"Early (acute) lesions of rheumatic heart disease cause mitral regurgitation Late (chronic) lesions of rheumatic heart disease cause mitral stenosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a short systolic murmur (cardiac apex) that disappears with squatting? Mitral valve prolapse"
"HOCM and MVP murmurs decrease::increase/decrease with more preload"
"Visual field defects, headache and ↓ testosterone is suggestive of prolactinoma (pituitary adenoma)::condition"
"Primary hypothyroidism = ↑ prolactin"
"Acromegaly = diagnosed with serum IGF-1::test"
"What is the next step in a patient with suspected acromegaly that is found to have elevated IGF-1 levels? Oral glucose suppression test"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient that develops coarse facial features, digit enlargement, arthralgias, hypertension, and carpal tunnel syndrome? Acromegaly"
"Octreotide (somatostatin analog) may be used to treat acromegaly and gigantism if symptoms persist after trans-sphenoidal resection (to remove the adenoma)"
"Untreated acromegaly can cause concentric::concentric/eccentric myocardial hypertrophy leading to diastolic heart failure"
"Acute hypopituitarism can present with lethargy, coma, hypotension, tachycardia and is caused by Sheehan's syndrome::post-partum hypopituitarism after prolonged labor or apoplexy::tumor outgrows blood supply"
"Cirrhosis = ↓ total T3/T4 and ↔ free T3/T4 and TSH"
"↓↓ Mg2+ = ↓ PTH = ↓::↑↓↔ Ca2+"
"Hypothyroidism = hyponatremia"
"PTU and methimazole = possibly fatal agranulocytosis::adverse effect"
"1° hyperaldosteronism does not directly cause edema or hypernatremia due to aldosterone escape and pressure naturesis mechanisms"
"Tight blood glucose control in diabetes reduces the risk of microvascular complications"
"Dawn phenomena in diabetes = hyperglycemia in AM"
"Mucosal neuromas and marfanoid body habitus = MEN 2B due to mutations in the RET gene"
"PTU, Glucocorticoids, and β-blockers inhibit what portion of thyroid metabolism? 5' Deiodinase in periphery conversion T4 to T3"
"High A1c and normal fasting glucose = postprandial hyperglycemia::cause"
"Hypo/Hyperthyroidism can cause hypertension"
"Cushing syndrome causes painless proximal muscle weakness due to direct catabolic effects of cortisol on skeletal muscle, leading to atrophy"
"The best initial pharmacological therapy for peripheral neuropathy is pregabalin or gabapentin"
"↓ Albumin = ↓ serum total calcium"
"Thyroid storm = life-threatening hyperthyroidism precipitated by acute stress (e.g. infection, trauma, surgery)"
"Treatment of painless thyroidits is β-blockers"
"Thyroiditis::Thyroiditis/Graves or Goiter = release of preformed hormone Graves/Goiter = overproduction of thyroid hormone"
"Hyperparathyroidism with high phosphate levels = renal failure::cause"
"↑ Estrogen (pregnancy, OCP) = ↑::↑↓↔ thyroxine-binding globulin (TBG) = ↑::↑↓↔ total T3/T4 and ↔ free T3/T4"
"Syndrome of inappropriate ADH (SIADH) may be treated with water::first line treatment restriction, with conivaptan/tolvaptan, or with a tetracycline such as demeclocycline"
"Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus treatment: thiazides::diuretic class or NSAIDs::drug class or amiloride::K sparing diuretic for lithium induced nephrogenic DI"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with increasing polyuria/polydipsia with hypernatremia, high serum osmolality, and low urine osmolality? Diabetes insipidus"
"Constipation, ↓ reflexes/muscle weakness and bradycardia is most likely caused by hypothyroidism::condition"
"Hyperthyroidism, diffuse::type goiter, exophthalamos and pretibial myxedema is suggestive of Graves disease::condition"
"What are the \4 P's\\" used to treat thyroid storm? Propranolol::BB Propylthiouracil (PTU) > Methimazole::blocks TPO Prednisolone (↓ T4 to T3)::corticosteroid Potassium iodide (Wolff-Chaikoff)::Lugol iodine\""
"Cold dry skin = hypo::hypo/hyperthyroidism Warm moist skin = hyper::hypo/hyperthyroidism"
"Thyroid follicular carcinoma = invasion through fibrous capsule and into the blood::location"
"RET::gene mutation = MEN 2A and MEN 2B"
"Hyperpigmentation and hyperkalemia/hyponatremia/hypotension are more often seen in primary adrenal insufficiency"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged female with fatigue, GI symptoms, and skin hyperpigmentation? Primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison disease)"
"Treatment of adrenal insufficiency: glucocorticoid for both primary and secondary add fludrocortisone for primary (Addison)::primary/secondary"
"Refractory hypertension, hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis is suggestive of primary hyperaldosteronism::diagnosis"
"After you diagnose an adrenal tumor via CT/MRI, what would you want to do next to confirm which adrenal gland responsible? Adrenal vein sampling"
"Adrenal incidentaloma > 4 cm::cm = ↑ risk of carcinoma (surgical removal)"
"What level of random blood glucose is diagnostic of T2DM? ≥ 200 mg/dL"
"Autoimmune destruction of β islet cells leading to hyperglycemia is suggestive of T1DM::condition"
"T1DM::T1DM/T2DM always requires insulin treatment"
"Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies are suggestive of T1DM::condition"
"What do you do for management of diabetes if lifestyle and metformin doesn't work? Add 2nd agent (sulfonylurea)"
"The most common side effect of metformin is GI upset"
"Metformin (biguanides) = ↓::↓/↑ liver gluconeogenesis (main MOA) and ↑::↓/↑ insulin sensitivity"
"Thiazolidinediones (glitazones) are ligands of PPAR-gamma, an intranuclear receptor that regulates gene transcription and causes upregulation of adiponectin::cytokine and GLUT4::#?"
"Thiazolidinediones::diabetes drug class = ↑ insulin sensitivity (via PPAR-γ)"
"Thiazolidinedione-induced fluid retention can exacerbate heart failure"
"\liptin\\" Sitagliptin"
"HbA1c > 10::% = start insulin"
"T2DM::T1DM/T2DM is characterized by insulin resistance"
"Detemir and glargine are characterized by long action and duration and used as basal::basal/rapid acting insulin"
"What insulin regimen is considered the best for the day-to-day management of diabetes? Basal-Bolus"
"Lispro, aspart, glulisine (rapid acting insulin) are useful for controlling the postprandial glucose spike"
"Current blood glucose is a product of prior insulin dose"
"In the inpatient setting, sliding scale insulin can be added to an existing basal-bolus regimen"
"What is the treatment regimen for diabetic ketoacidosis? - Prophylactic potassium, IV insulin, and IV fluids - Once anion gap closes: subQ insulin - Once blood glucose reaches 200-250 mg/dL: D5W"
"Menin (MEN 1)::gene mutation = MEN 1"
"MEN2 = RET proto-oncogene activation"
"Amoxicillin and ampicillins are examples of aminopenicillins, which has improved activity against gram negative bacteria"
"What are the extended-spectrum penicillins used to treat Pseudomonas infections? (2) Piperacillin w/ β-lactamase inhibitor Ticarcillin w/ β-lactamase inhibitor"
"Generally speaking, as we move from 1st generation to 5th generation cephalosporins there will be more gram negative bacteria coverage"
"Cephalexin and cefazolin are first generation cephalosporins that can be used to treat skin/soft tissue infections by Staph/Strep"
"UTI is managed with Ciprofloxacin Pneumonia is managed with Levofloxacin/Moxifloxacin"
"Clindamycin for anaerobes above::above/below diaphgram and metronidazole for anaerobes below::above/below diaphgram"
"Postexposure prophylaxis is recommended for close personal contacts of those with hepatitis A T::T/F"
"HIV + retinitis and esophagitis/colitis = CMV::viral infection"
"Chronic Histoplasmosis::fungal infection can look similar to TB and sarcoidiosis (hilar adenopathy, non-caseating granulomas, reticulonodular infiltrates)"
"Dissemination of Histoplasmosis::which fungus in immunocompromised patients to the liver and spleen results in hepatosplenomegaly, with gross pathology of these organs showing calcifications"
"Infectious mononucleosis::Mono/Strep may cause a generalized lymphadenopathy"
"Prolonged fever, pharyngitis +/- exudates and fatigue and generalized lymphadenopathy is suggestive of mono::diagnosis"
"Rapid onset food poisoning causing vomiting (< 6 hr) = staph. aureus::bacteria or bacillus cereus (emetic form)::bacteria"
"Subacute bacterial endocarditis following a dental / respiratory tract incision procedure likely indicates viridans group strep.::bacteria infection"
"Aspiration pneumonia is characterized by foul-smelling sputum"
"What is empiric treatment for Mycoplasma pneumoniae? Azithromycin"
"Hepatitis B is acquired via sex / blood / birth::mechanism"
"Hepatitis C is acquired via blood::mechanism"
"Antidiarrheals are contraindicated::indicated/contraindicated in infectious diarrhea"
"What is treatment for Legionnaires' disease? Macrolide or fluoroquinolone"
"Babesia = most dangerous for asplenic patients::population"
"Babesiosis is diagnosed via blood smear with a characteristic 'Maltese cross' structure within cells"
"The drugs used to treat babesiosis are atovaquone and azithromycin"
"Brain cysts and seizures = ingestion of taenia solium eggs (cestode)::cestode"
"Neutropenia refers to a decreased number of circulating neutrophils < 1500 cells/mm3"
"Live-attenuated vaccines are contraindicated in those taking TNF-α antagonists"
"Pooled secretions in the oropharynx, drooling, muffled voice, and stridor suggests epiglottitis"
"Gonococcal urethritis in men is managed with ceftriaxone and azithro/doxy::treatment"
"What is the clinical presentation of Coccidiodes infection in an immunocompetent individual? Pneumonia with arthralgias "
"Ascaris lumbricoides is a helminth that can cause intestinal obstruction at the ileocecal valve"
"Anti-HBs and Anti-HBe or Anti-HBc Ab = Recovery from Hep B"
"HBsAg indicates active infection"
"Anti-HBc IgM is the sole marker during the window period"
"Which intestinal cestode is most associated with anaphylaxis?  Echinococcus granulosus (∴ Surgeons give epinephrine prior to surgical removal)"
"Chlamydia trachomatis (D-K) is usually: symptomatic::symptomatic/asymptomatic in men asymptomatic::symptomatic/asymptomatic in women"
"Reactive CD8+ T-cells (Downey or atypical cells) seen on blood smear in EBV/CMV::virus infection"
"Nocardia causes pulmonary infections in the immuno-compromised"
"Influenza pneumonia creates bilateral, diffuse interstitial infiltrates on chest x-ray"
"\Bone break fever\\" (muscle pain/fever)"
"Which pathogen is the most common cause of acute infectious bloody diarrhea in the absence of fever and is transmitted via undercooked meat? E. coli O157:H7"
"HIV patient with CD4 < 50, systemic symptoms, splenomegaly and elevated alkaline phosphatase level is suggestive of MAC::diagnosis"
"Bacillary angiomatosis is a complication of Bartonella henselae that presents with raised red vascular lesions on the skin"
"Urological imaging (e.g. CT) is used after 48-72 hours of unsuccessful treatment of pyelonephritis with antibiotics"
"Treatment : Entamoeba (1) Metronidazole (tissue) (2) Paromycin or Iodoquinol (for cysts in lumen)"
"Lyme disease is caused by the spirochete::class Borrelia burgdorferi"
"Coxsackie A is associated with herpangina (mouth blisters in the posterior pharynx)"
"Should antiretroviral treatment be deferred until at least 2 weeks after antifungal treatment is started for cryptococcal infection? Yes"
"Broad-based budding yeast = blastomyces::fungus"
"Tazobactam, sulbactam, and clavulanic acid are  β-lactamase inhibitors::class that can be added with amoxicillin, ampicillin, or piperacillin to extend their activity to cover gram (+) and (-)"
"Tazobactam is an irreversible β-lactamase inhibitor that is combined with piperacillin (antipseudomonal penicillin)"
"The treatment guideline for HIV is: 2 NRTIs and either: NNRTI PI (+ ritonavir boosting) Integrase Inhibitor"
"What is the best anti-retroviral HIV drug for pregnancy/post-partum? Zidovudine (AZT)"
"HHV-8 causes Kaposi Sarcoma"
"How do you manage HIV during pregnancy for mom (intrapartum)? Viral load ≥ 1000: ART and C-section at 38 weeks::C-section/Vaginal delivery and Zidovudine (AZT)::what drug? at time of delivery Unknown HIV status: Zidovudine (AZT)::what drug? at time of delivery Viral load < 1000: ART and Vaginal delivery::C-section/Vaginal delivery"
"How do you diagnose HIV during the primary infection? 4th generation antigen/antibody assay and p24 antigen"
"Lower/middle lobe granulomas and hilar lymph node swelling (Ghon complex) is characteristic of primary TB infection::condition"
"When tuberculosis reactivates (secondary), it primarily affects the upper lobes of the lung"
"(+) PPD with (-) X-ray is managed with INH 9 months::next step"
"What drug regimen is most commonly used to treat active tuberculosis?  (1) Rifampin(2) Isoniazid(3) Pyrazinamide(4) Ethambutol (And Vitamin B6)"
"Interferon-γ release assay (IGRA) has fewer::greater/fewer false positives from BCG vaccination than PPD testing"
"Adverse Effect: Ethambutol Optic neuritis (Including red-green color blindness)"
"SIRS must include 2 of the following: Temp > 38 (100.4)::°C or temp < 36 (96.8)::°C RR > 20 breaths/min::breaths/min HR > 90 bpm::bpm WBC > 12,000::WBC count or WBC < 4000::WBC count"
"Sepsis = 2 SIRS and source of infection"
"Severe sepsis is defined by sepsis and organ dysfunction responsive to fluid::condition Septic shock is defined by sepsis and organ dysfunction not responsive to fluid::condition"
"Goals of sepsis therapy include: CVP at 10-12 Urine output > 0.5 cc/kg/hour MAP > 65 SvO2 > 70%"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an HIV patient that presents with fever and altered mental status with encapsulated yeast visualized on CSF fungal stain? Cryptococcal meningoencephalitis"
"for cryptococcus 2"
"Amphotericin B and Flucytosine combination is used for the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis"
"Temporal lobe encephalitis or a hemorrhagic LP is caused by HSV-1"
"Which arthritis is characterized by non-inflammatory synovial fluid (WBC < 2000/mm3)? Osteoarthritis::OA/RA"
"\Periarticular osteopenia\\" on X-ray is suggestive of rheumatoid arthritis::diagnosis\""
"Dactylitis (inflammation → sausage fingers) Uveitis Enthesitis (inflammation of tendon, e.g. Achilles) Are common features of seronegative spondyloarthritis::group of diseases"
"Enthesitis = inflammation of attachments to bone::structure"
"\Swan neck\\" and \\"Boutonniere\\" deformities are associated with Rheumatoid arthritis\""
"Plantar fasciitis::diagnosis"
"A pt presents with burning/pain/numbness in the sole of her right foot that worsens with walking. Which nerve is most likely affected? Tibial nerve"
"Cellulitis is a erythematous, poorly-defined infection of the deep dermis and subcutaneous tissue"
"Early osteomyelitis (< 2 weeks) = MRI::imaging test Late osteomyelitis (> 2 weeks) = X-ray::imaging test"
"Osteomyelitis should be empirically treated with IV vancomycin and IV antipseudomonal agent"
"Treatment of gas gangrene is Emergency debridement (+ PCN and clindamycin)"
"What is the most likely diagnosis given a patient with swollen, erythematous skin, pain out of proportion of physical exam, and the CT findings below? Necrotizing fasciitis"
"Necrotizing fasciitis is commonly caused by Strep pyogenes or Clostridium perfringens and treated with surgical debridement::procedure and broad-spectrum antibiotics"
"The most common cause of osteomyelitis is staph. aureus::bacteria"
"What is the most common cause of osteomyelitis in the following populations: General: Staph aureus Penetrating: Pseudomonas Sickle cell: Staph aureus > Salmonella Diabetes mellitus: Polymicrobial (cover Pseudomonas) Oyster/Cirrhotic: Vibrio Vulnificans"
"Thrombectomy is done for large strokes within 24 hours"
"What is the next set of imaging that you get after non-contrast CT for stroke? CTA"
"Golfer's elbow = medial::medial/lateral epicondylitis Tennis elbow = lateral::medial/lateral epicondylitis"
"The pharynx and upper third of the esophagus are composed of striated muscleThe lower two-thirds of the esophagus are composed of smooth muscle"
"Claw toe and hammer toe may suggest underlying diabetic neuropathy::pathology"
"What knee injury presents acutely with \catching/locking\\" and reduced range of motion? Meniscal tear\""
"Pain reproducible with isometric quadriceps contraction = patellofemoral pain syndrome::diagnosis?"
"Polymyalgia rheumatica is characterized by stiffness in the shoulders and hips, without muscular weakness"
"Paresthesia and pain but sparing of the the sensation over the thenar eminence is suggestive of Carpal Tunnel syndrome"
"The top three causes of UTIs are: E. coli::#1 overallStaph. saprophyticus::bacteria in sexually active women Klebsiella pneumoniae::bacteria"
"Cystitis typically presents with dys-uria, urinary frequency, urgency, and suprapubic pain"
"First-line treatment options for uncomplicated cystitis include TMP-SMX (3 days), nitrofurantoin (5 days), and fosfomycin (single dose)"
"Cystitis is characterized by cloudy::appearance urine and should be confirmed with urinalysis::test"
"Treatment of gonorrhea and chlamydia is ceftriaxone::cephalosporin and azithromycin/doxycycline"
"Symptoms of cystitis, fever, N/V and CVA tenderness is suggestive of pyelonephritis::diagnosis"
"Uncomplicated outpatient pyelonephritis is managed with fluoroquinolones::treatment Uncomplicated inpatient pyelonephritis is managed with ceftriaxone::treatment"
"Pyelonephritis that doesn't improve is suggestive of perinephric abscess::diagnosis, which is diagnosed with CT/ultrasound::imaging"
"Primary syphilis is characterized by a(n) painless::painless/painful genital::location chancre"
"Tertiary syphilis presents with gummas, tabes dorsalis, general paresis, aortitis, and Argyll-Robertson pupil."
"A rash including the palms and soles likely indicates: Coxsackievirus A Rocky mountain spotted fever 2° Syphilis::CARS"
"Painless genital ulcers and tender inguinal lymphadenopathy is seen in lymphogranuloma venereum::condition"
"Painful genital lesions with well-demarcated borders and painful inguinal lymphadenopathy (right) is suggestive of chancroid::condition"
"The two most common causes of urethritis is in men are Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae"
"VDRL and RPR are the typical screening tests used for diagnosing secondary Treponema pallidum"
"What is the recommended treatment for primary syphilis in a non-pregnant patient with a severe penicillin allergy (e.g. anaphylaxis)? Oral doxycycline"
"Test of choice for HSV = PCR"
"Disorder of bone remodeling caused by ↑ osteoclast bone resorption is suggestive of paget disease::diagnosis"
"Ankylosing spondylitis = ↑ risk of vertebral fracture"
"Acute (< 1 month), uncomplicated back pain (e.g. lumbar strain) is treated with NSAIDs/acetaminophen"
"Swollen posterior cervical lymph nodes, swollen spleen, and pharyngitis may indicate mononucleosis (EBV)::herpesvirus associated disease"
"Diagnosis of sore throat (viral vs. strep) is based around the CENTOR criteria: C: absent cough (+1) E: tonsillar exudates (+1) N: anterior cervical lymphadenopathy (node) (+1) T: fever (temperature) (+1) OR: under 15 years (+1) OR over 44 years (-1)"
"Staphylococcus aureus causes acute::acute/chronic endocarditis, which is characterized by large::small/large vegetations that destroy the valve"
"Which type of infective endocarditis involves less virulent organisms infecting abnormal native valves? Subacute endocarditis"
"Amoxicillin::Drug = endocarditis prophylaxis for dental procedures in those with high risk"
"What is the best next step in a patient that presents with endocarditis and CHF? Surgery"
"Anti-centromere antibodies is suggestive of limited scleroderma (CREST)::condition"
"ANA, anti-Jo-1, anti-Mi-2, anti-SRP antibodies is suggestive of myositis::diagnosis"
"Patients with abnormal joints (e.g. RA, OA) have a(n) increased risk of septic arthritis"
"SLE can often affect the brain::organ, causing seizures or psychosis"
"gout::gout/septic arthritis = abrupt (hours) onset of pain septic arthritis::gout/septic arthritis = gradual (days) onset of pain"
"Features of SLE, systemic sclerosis and polymyositis is suggestive of mixed connective tissue disease::diagnosis"
"Inflammatory bowel disease::GI is associated with a seronegative arthritis that can affect the axial (spine) or peripheral (knee) joints"
"Back pain and malignancy concern (e.g. nocturnal pain, malignancy history) is managed with X-ray::next step"
"Corticosteroid::drug use can increase the risk of osteoporosis and therefore vertebral compression fractures"
"Herniated disc pain usually is radicular::type of pain, radiating along the thigh to below the knee (sciatica)"
"Cirrhosis, diabetes and skin pigmentation is most likely hemochromatosis::condition"
"Hemochromatosis results in: ↑::↑↓↔ serum iron ↓::↑↓↔ transferrin (TIBC) ↑::↑↓↔ ferritin ↑↑::↑↓↔ transferrin sat."
"Chondrocalcinosis (cartilage calcification) on x-ray is most likely pseudogout (CPPD)::condition"
"Giant cell arteritis and impaired vision = high dose IV steroids::drug"
"Osteoarthritis is common in patients with prior joint injury, especially ACL injury"
"Does polymyalgia rheumatica present with muscle weakness or pain/stiffness? What about polymyositis? Pain/stiffness vs. Weakness"
"Fibromyalgia, Polymyositis, or Polymyalgia rheumatica? Stiffness > pain in proximal muscles with elevated ESR and normal creatine kinase. Chronic wide spread pain with normal labs. Proximal weakness with elevated ESR and creatine kinase. PR, F, PM"
"Medical errors often occur due to communication failure during hand-off, which can be remedied by using checklists::item"
"One treatment for cyanide poisoning is vitamin B12 which may bind cyanide"
"House fires = treat for cyanide and CO poisoning"
"Brain death is a legally acceptable definition of death"
"Postexposure prophylaxis of rabies includes administration of killed rabies vaccine (active immunization) and rabies immunoglobulin (passive immunization)"
"Definitive treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage includes surgical clipping or coiling"
"Common viral causes of meningitis include enteroviruses (especially coxsackievirus) and HSV-2"
"Strawberry hemangiomas are seen in infants and grows then regresses by 5-8 y.o. Cherry hemangiomas are seen in elderly individuals and do not regress spontaneously"
"Eliminating caffeine after lunch and avoiding naps are examples of good sleep hygiene used to treat insomnia"
"Otosclerosis::Condition refers to the ossification of the ossicles in the middle ear, causing stapes to become fixed to the oval window"
"Dermatitis herpetiformis is an autoimmune deposition of IgA at the tips of dermal papillae"
"Acute onset somnolence, miosis, hypotension and ↓ respiratory rate after someone comes to visit patient in the hospital is suggestive of opioid intoxication::diagnosis"
"Bath salt intoxication last a(n) long::short/long time"
"NSAIDs can worsen anaphylaxis by resulting in nonimmunologic mast cell activation"
"Black liver and defective hepatocyte bilirubin excretion is suggestive of Dubin-Johnson syndrome::condition"
"Rapidly growing with ↑ bleeding, associated trauma and pregnancy? Pyogenic granuloma"
"Adenovirus is the most common cause of viral conjunctivitis and presents with a(n) watery::quality discharge"
"Acetaminophen overdose = N-acetylcysteine::antidote"
"An abnormal head thrust test can detect vestibular dysfunction"
"Exercise-induced hyponatremia occurs due to a combination of excessive hypotonic fluid intake and non-osmotic release of ADH"
"Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune (IgG) destruction of desmoglein/desmosomes between keratinocytes"
"Which blistering skin disorder presents in an elderly person with tense blisters that don't rupture easily? Bullous pemphigoid"
"This patient likely suffers from lymphedema::swelling in her left arm."
"Anabolic steroid use = ↔ testosterone and ↓ GnRH, LH, FSH"
"Exogenous androgens (anabolic steroids) = ↑ hematocrit"
"Exertional heat stroke::Exertional heat stroke/heat exhaustion = dysfunction of thermoregulation Heat exhaustion::Exertional heat stroke/heat exhaustion = inadequate fluid/salt replacement"
"Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is associated with anti-mitochondrial antibody"
"Neuropathic pain (periph. neuropathy / postherpetic neuralgia) = TCA::antidepressant or gabapentin::antiepileptic"
"Epidural hematoma is managed with Emergency craniotomy::treatment"
"Methanol ingestion damages the eye::organ, showing a hyperemic optic disc on funduscopy"
"What is the first-line pharmacotherapy for somatic symptom disorder? SSRI"
"Only nonmonetary gifts that are of minimal value and that directly benefit the patient should be accepted"
"If BP measurements differ from arm-to-arm, an average measurement of the limb with higher::lower/higher readings should be used"
"vertical/torsional nystagmus that lasts > 1 minute + postural instability and headache indicates central::peripheral/central vertigo"
"Which generation of antihistamines has greater anticholinergic side effects? 1st generation"
"Fecal impaction can cause fecal incontinence due to obstruction of fecal flow in the rectum"
"What secondary cause of hypertension is associated with epistaxis, tremor, and tachycardia? Cocaine intoxication"
"What drug intoxication presents as euphoria, slow reflexes, increased appetite, paranoia, and dry mouth? Marijuana"
"ESRD::condition associated with calciphylaxis (calcification) leading to ischemic skin necrosis"
"Arteriolar and soft tissue calcification leading to tissue ischemia and necrosis is suggestive of calciphylaxis::condition"
"Malassezia furfur = azoles (topical)::antifungal or selenium sulfide (selsun blue)"
"Strep. pharyngitis::infection = guttate psoriasis (may appear weeks later)"
"What serologic markers are associated with systemic lupus erythematosus? Sensitive, but not specific: ANA Specific, but not sensitive: anti-dsDNA::renal involvement and anti-Smith Drug-induced lupus: anti-histone Reflects disease severity: CRP"
"Lupus::Diagnosis"
"How do complement levels change in an acute lupus flare? Decrease"
"Lupus nephritis next step before treatment? Urinalysis → Biopsy"
"Systemic lupus erythematosus is an autoimmune disease caused by complement-forming complexes; it more often affects women::gender and people of color::ethnicity"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult female with bilateral joint pain/swelling? Laboratory examination reveals pancytopenia and proteinuria. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)"
"Lupus::Diagnosis"
"Anti-cardiolipin is an antiphospholipid antibody that may result in false-positive VDRL and RPR tests (syphilis)"
"Procainamide, hydralazine, and isoniazid = drug-induced lupus = anti-histone antibodies"
"C3/C4 levels are low in a lupus flare"
"Pannus formation on X-ray = rheumatoid arthritis"
"How do you treat the pain control in rheumatoid arthritis? NSAIDs"
"Which cervical spinal levels can be affected in RA? C1 and C2 (and can cause subluxation)"
"Leflunomide inhibits T-cell proliferation, which makes it especially useful for its main indication: Rheumatoid/Psoriatic Arthritis"
"Which arthritis classically involves the PIPs and DIPs? Osteoarthritis (also the 1st CMC)::OA/RA"
"Ulnar deviation of phylanges is seen in rheumatoid arthritis::condition"
"What CNS tumors are associated with neurofibromatosis II? meningioma and ependymoma"
"Cyclosporine and tacrolimus are calcineurin inhibitors that block T cell activation by preventing IL-2 transcription"
"Arsenic::Lead/Arsenic toxicity = skin symptoms Lead::Lead/Arsenic poisoning = GI symptoms"
"Phenytoin::Antiepileptic = ataxia and diplopia + gingival hyperplasia"
"Carbamazepine is an anti-epileptic associated with blood dyscrasias, such as aplastic anemia and agranulocytosis"
"Valproic acid is an anti-epileptic that rarely causes a fatal hepatotoxicity"
"What endocrine pathology may be caused by carbamazepine use? SIADH"
"Impaired CSF reabsorption at the arachnoid villi leads to normal pressure hydrocephalus::condition"
"Elderly male with high post-void residual (PVR) with absent Achilles tendon reflex is most likely BPH::condition"
"Limited scleroderma is also referred to as \CREST syndrome\\": C: Calcinosis cutis"
"Scleroderma is characterized by fibroblast activation with resultant collagen deposition in skin and organs"
"Dihydropyridine CCBs may be used to treat Raynaud's phenomenon, which is an exaggerated vascular response to cold temperature or emotional stress"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged female that presents with dry mouth, dysphagia, oral thrush, dental caries, and dry eyes? Sjögren's syndrome"
"↑ CK and bilateral proximal muscle weakness is seen in myositis::condition"
"Anti-Jo, anti-SRP and anti-Mi-2 antibodies are suggestive of myositis::condition"
"CREST, renal crisis and heart and interstitial lung disease is suggestive of diffuse scleroderma::diagnosis"
"What is the mechanism of urge and overflow incontinence in multiple sclerosis? UMN demyelination ⇒ Spastic/Hypertonic bladder (urge incontinence); LMN demyelination → overflow incontinence"
"Pseudogout (calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease) is characterized by synovial fluid with: - Rhomboid::shape?-shaped crystals - Positive::Positive/Negative birefringence under polarized light - Blue::Color? when parallel to polarized light"
"Acute gout may occur with red meat::food, alcohol::drink, or seafood consumption, which are rich in purines"
"Loop and thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia, which may lead to precipitation of gout"
"↑ Uric acid → monosodium urate crystals in joints is suggestive of gout::diagnosis Calcium pyrophosphate crystals in joints is suggestive of pseudogout::diagnosis"
"Osteoarthritis classically presents with joint stiffness that worsens::improves/worsens during the day"
"The seronegative spondyloarthropathies may be remembered with the mnemonic \PAIR\\" P: Psoriatic arthritis A: Ankylosing spondylitis I: Inflammatory bowel disease R: Reactive arthritis\""
"Which sex is more commonly affected by seronegative spondyloarthritis? Men"
"Ankylosing spondylitis is characterized by a \bamboo spine\\" appearance on X-ray.\""
"General treatment of seronegative arthropathies (PAIR) include: (1) NSAIDs (2) Local Steroid injections (3) DMARDs (except axial skeleton) (4) TNF-alpha inhibitors"
"Reactive arthritis is characterized by a triad of conjunctivitis, urethritis, and arthritis"
"Inflammatory bowel disesase::GI is associated with a seronegative arthritis that is symmetric and bilateral, non-deforming, peripheral (fingers), and migratory"
"What is the treatment of enteropathic (IBD-associated) arthritis? Treat IBD"
"Severe unilateral headache, vision changes and jaw claudication is suggestive of giant cell arteritis::condition"
"What is the treatment for a patient with giant cell (temporal) arteritis? Before or after biopsy? High-dose corticosteroids immediately - BEFORE biopsy returns"
"Takayasu arteritis::Takayasu Arteritis or Giant Cell (temporal) arteritis = young Asian women Giant Cell (temporal) arteritis::Takayasu Arteritis or Giant Cell (temporal) arteritis = elderly female with headache"
"Takayasu arteritis::vasculitis"
"HBV::viral infection can lead to polyarteritis nodosa"
"Polyarteritis nodosa = steroids::drug class and cyclophosphamide::drug"
"Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener) is managed with steroids and cyclophosphamide::treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a hepatitis C patient with palpable purpura, hematuria, proteinuria, and low serum complement? Mixed cryoglobulinemia"
"c-ANCA antibodies are most associated with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (Wegener)::condition"
"Multiple medium-vessel aneurysms = polyarteritis nodosa::vasculitis"
"Transient global amnesia::Condition involves severe anterograde amnesia lasting about 24 hours"
"Anything that causes mydriasis will worsen::help/worsen acute angle closure glaucoma"
"Chronic::Form ITP = platelets < 100,000 for > 1 year"
"Congenital CMV is usually transmitted to mother via body fluids (e.g. saliva)::substance"
"Circulating immune complex deposition in the mesangium and basement membrane causes post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis (PSGN)"
"Which major autosomal trisomy is associated with hypotonia leading to a weak suck and protruding tongue? Down Syndrome (Trisomy 21)"
"Giardia disrupts microvilli on enterocytes, leading to significant malabsorption (e.g. lactose intolerance and fatty acid malabsorption)"
"What is the likely reason why a patient with hemophilia A begins to develop increased bleeding in spite of factor VIII replacement therapy? Inhibitor development"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child who recently received the VZV vaccine and developed a maculopapular/vesicular rash with few lesions? Replication of the vaccine-strain VZV"
"Complicated parapneumonic effusion::Complicated or uncomplicated parapneumonic pleural effusion has the following: - Leukocyte counts > 50,000 - pH < 7.2 - Glucose < 60"
"Child with suspected renal abscess = renal/bladder ultrasound::diagnostic imaging"
"Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) is due to inhibition or deficiency of the ADAMTS13 (vWF metalloprotease) enzyme"
"Disseminated intravascular coagulation presents with ↑::↑/↓ PT/PTT ↓::↑/↓ fibrinogen ↑::↑/↓ D dimer"
"IgG against heparin-PF4 complex is characteristic of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)::condition"
"What is the next step in management for a child with suspected immune thrombocytopenia that presents with mucosal bleeding? Corticosteroids → IVIG"
"Osteoblastic metastases may arise from: prostate cancer::cancer breast cancer::cancer and causes hypocalcemia"
"Tetanus = muscles hypertonic"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that emigrated from Southeast Asia and presents with a well-circumscribed, hypopigmented patch on the arm with no sensation to pinprick? The ulnar nerve on ipsilateral arm is thickened and tender. Leprosy"
"What does this show? herniated disc (C5-C6)"
"Interosseous muscles of the hand (DAB, PAD) innervated by ulnar nerve"
"D"
"What is the likely nerve root distribution affected if someone has loss of biceps reflex and loss of sensation in the thumb? C6"
"IV Ca2+ channel blockers such as nicardipine and clevidipine may be used in hypertensive emergency"
"Nitroprusside causes vasodilation via nitric oxide, which is useful during the treatment of hypertensive emergency"
"Hypertensive urgency = treated with PO::PO/IV Hypertensive emergency = treated with IV::PO/IV"
"IV β1 antagonists, such as esmolol and metoprolol, can be used for hypertensive emergency"
"Labetalol is useful in the treatment of hypertensive emergency"
"What are the ESR and CK levels in steroid-induced myopathy and polymyalgia rheumatica? Normal"
"Initial treatment for sciatica is NSAIDs"
"Bell's palsy involves a(n) peripheral::central/peripheral lesion of the facial nerve::nerve/nerve root"
"Which clotting factors are inactivated by the low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)? Factor Xa, mostly"
"Aspirin and clopidogrel are examples of anti-platelets::anti-platelets or anticoagulants Heparin, Warfarin, and Direct Thrombin/Xa inhibitors are examples of anti-coagulants::anti-platelets or anticoagulants"
"Clinical Presentation: \Café-au-lait spots"
"Superior Vena Cava (SVC) Syndrome is a possible mass effect complication of lung cancers that involves impaired venous drainage from the head, neck and upper extremities"
"Child post-group A strep infection who develops OCD / tic disorder is suggestive of PANDAS::diagnosis"
"Can Guillain-Barré syndrome affect the upper extremities? Yes"
"Symmetric distal sensory loss or burning sensation associated with motor weakness = polyneuropathy::syndrome"
"Sensation to pink region (snuffbox) = radial n.::nerve"
"Loss of consciousness after shaving / head turning / tight collars is suggestive of carotid sinus hypersensitivity::diagnosis"
"Prochlorperazine (compazine) = D2 blocker (chemotherapy antiemetic)::drug class often good for migraine a/w vomiting"
"Which two anti-emetics can cause torsades as a possible side effect? Ondansetron and metoclopramide"
"What MSK pathology is characterized by impaired relaxation after a single muscle contraction? Myotonic dystrophy"
"Patient presents with chronic exercise intolerance with myalgia, fatigue, painful cramps, and myoglobinuria McArdle disease (glycogen storage disease type V)"
"Small cell lung carcinoma may produce the posterior pituitary hormone ADH leading to SIADH"
"Swallow > 2 magnets in esophagus or stomach is managed with endoscopic removal::next step"
"Epiglottitis is managed with ceftriaxone and vancomycin::antibiotic treatment"
"HbH and Hgb Barts = alpha::alpha/beta thalassemia ↑ HbA2 and ↑ HbF = beta::alpha/beta thalassemia"
"Thalassemia = ↑ red blood cell count Iron deficiency anemia = ↓ red blood cell count"
"α-thalassemia due to a(n) four::# gene deletion is characterized by formation of γ4 tetramers, known as Hb Barts"
"Solid-food dysphagia, vomiting, and recurrent food impaction with esophageal compression seen on fluoroscopy is suggestive of vascular ring::diagnosis"
"β-thalassemia major (β0/β0)::Condition will result in: HbA = 0% HbS = 0% HbF ≈ 97.5% HbA2 ≈ 2.5%"
"β-thalassemia minor (β/β+)::Condition will result in: HbA ≈ 93% HbS = 0% HbF ≈ 2% HbA2 ≈ 5%"
"Hodgkin's lymphoma presents as a(n) mediastinal mass or nontender::tender or nontender lymphadenopathy, and B symptoms"
"Croup causes inspiratory stridor and barky cough due to narrowing of the proximal trachea::region"
"ADHD is treated with stimulants +/- cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)"
"Are iron studies or hemoglobin electrophoresis done first in someone suspicious for iron deficiency anemia and thalassemia? Iron studies"
"Non-traumatic raccoon eyes in child is seen in neuroblastoma::condition"
"What does this show? Enlarged epiglottis (epiglottitis)"
"Cholesteatoma are round pearly masses that cause conductive hearing loss and are composed of: Squamous cell and keratin debris"
"Schwannomas (acoustic neuromas) often affect CN7 and CN8"
"Generalized seizures are characterized by LOC T::T/F"
"Patient with diabetes presents with pain around the waist that feels like a \burning belt\\" along the T12 distribution is suggestive of diabetic thoracic radiculopathy::diagnosis\""
"Seizures refractory to benzos - next step? Phenytoin"
"E"
"Ipsilateral dilated pupil with down/out gaze and ipsilateral paralysis and contralateral homonymous hemianopia = uncal herniation"
"Diagnosis of polymyositis or dermatomyositis is made with EMG::diagnostic tool and confirmed with muscle biopsy::procedure"
"If sensation is decreased below the umbilicus along with weakness of lower extremities, where is the likely location of the lesion? Thoracic spinal cord"
"Uncal (transtentorial) herniation involves displacement of the temporal lobe uncus under the tentorium cerebelli"
"Decerebrate rigidity = below::above/below red nucleus Decorticate rigidity = above::above/below red nucleus"
"Describe the appearance of Strep. pneumoniae under the microscope Lancet-shaped diplococci (Gram (+))"
"Listeria monocytogenes is a gram positive rod"
"Patient with rheumatoid arthritis begins to have cervical radiculopathy (weakness, pain, numbness in upper extremities) and UMN signs - next step? Imaging of the cervical spine (X-ray, MRI)"
"Post-viral infection (e.g. VZV) onset of cerebellar dysfunction (nystagmus, ataxia)? Acute cerebellar ataxia"
"Can distal symptoms occur in polymyalgia rheumatica? Yes"
"What test is most likely to reveal the underlying etiology of amaurosis fugax? Duplex ultrasound of the neck"
"- Unilateral, severe radicular pain - LMN symptoms only (e.g. normal Babinski) Cauda equina syndrome::Cauda Equina or Conus Medullaris"
"Collapsing weakness is often evidence of conversion disorder"
"Urge incontinence is due to an overactive bladder due to detrusor muscle hyperactivity"
"The axillary nerve may be injured by an anterior dislocation of the humerus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a euvolemic patient with low serum osmolality (< 275 mOsm/kg) and high urine osmolality (> 100 mOsm/kg)? SIADH"
"C"
"Prenatal TORCH infections are often associated with cerebral palsy"
"Phenytoin and carbamazepine are two anti-epileptics associated with DRESS (Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with a morbilliform rash, eosinophilia, diffuse lymphadenopathy, and transaminitis 8 weeks after starting phenytoin? DRESS syndrome"
"Radiculopathy is a pathologic process affecting the nerve root"
"Dorsal and ventral roots fuse to form the spinal nerve"
"Ventral rami arising from spinal nerves C5 to T1 form the brachial plexus"
"Spondylosis is a general term for degenerative changes of the spine"
"Cervical radiculopathy most commonly presents with neck pain that radiates down the arm in a dermatomal pattern"
"Pain in the neck is more likely a(n) nerve root::nerve root / peripheral nerve lesion"
"The two predominant mechanisms of compressive cervical radiculopathy are cervical spondylosis and disc herniation"
"Bilateral hypoattenuation of the globus pallidus is often seen in CO poisoning"
"What is the diagnosis in an AIDS patient with multiple contrast-enhanced mass lesions in the basal ganglia and subcortical white matter on CT scan or MRI? Toxoplasmosis"
"What pharmacological agent is used to prevent occlusion after a carotid artery dissection? Heparin"
"A peripheral neuropathy affects peripheral nerves::structure"
"Neuropathy::Neuropathy/Myopathy usually presents with distal weakness, absent DTRs, and can have sensory loss"
"Dermatomes: C4 shoulders C6 thumb T4 nipple T10 umbilicus L4 kneecaps L5::dermatome level great toe S1::dermatome level little toe"
"Middle finger = C7 (median)::dermatome level"
"If a patient just tried to commit suicide and risk of further self-harm remains high, a physician should involuntarily hospitalize the patient::next step"
"Grief can last a maximum of 12 months"
"Primary::Primary/Secondary hemostasis involves vWF and platelets and consists of platelet adhesion and aggregation resulting in a platelet plug. Secondary::Primary/Secondary hemostasis involves clotting factors and consists of the clotting cascade, resulting in a fibrin plug."
"Platelet::Platelet/Factor bleeding is superficial/mucosal (e.g. petechiae, epistaxis, gingival bleeding, menorrhagia) Factor bleeding is deep (e.g. joints)"
"Uremia = ↓::↑↓↔ platelet aggregation"
"Hemophilia = mixing normal plasma with patient's plasma (mixing study) = ↔::↑/↓/↔ PTT time Coagulation factor inhibitor = mixing normal plasma with patient's plasma (mixing study) = ↑::↑/↓/↔ PTT time"
"Hemophilia A = X-linked::inheritance pattern clotting factor 8::gene defect hemophilia B = X-linked::inheritance pattern clotting factor 9::gene defect"
"Which coagulation disorder presents with hemarthroses, easy bruising, and bleeding after surgery? Hemophilia"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult female with stroke-like symptoms and a positive RPR test despite no clinical evidence of syphilis? Anti-phospholipid syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman with a history of transient ischemic attacks and recurrent miscarriages? Antiphospholipid syndrome"
"Which test (PT or PTT) is used to follow the effects of warfarin? Which levels are increased? PT (via INR), but both are increased"
"Disc herniation = MRI::confirmatory imaging"
"What anti-parkinson's medication can cause this side effect? Amantadine"
"Rapid Diagnosis Down Syndrome patient with back pain, ataxia, incontinence, and quadriplegia Atlantoaxial instability (excessive mobility between C1 and C2 causing spinal cord compression)"
"Asthma palpable purpura sinusitis neuropathy Churg-Strauss syndrome::vasculitis"
"These are symptoms of acute intermittent porphyria and is treated with hemin/glucose"
"Parinaud syndrome is characterized by paralysis of vertical gaze due to a lesion in the superior colliculi (e.g. stroke, hydrocephalus, pinealoma)"
"Which Parkinson's disease plus syndrome includes bradykinesia with vertical gaze palsy, apathy, and postural instability? Progressive supranuclear palsy"
"Which medication used for migraine prophylaxis is also effective at preventing chronic tension headaches? Amitriptyline (TCA)"
"Trendelenburg Gait: Left hip drops = right sided lesion of superior gluteal nn."
"Carbamazepine, fever, rash, facial edema and eosinophilia is suggestive of DRESS::diagnosis"
"\Progressive muscle weakness in boys\\" \\"Calf pseudohypertrophy\\" \\"Child uses arms to stand up from squat\\" Muscular Dystrophy (Duchenne/Becker); X-linked::diagnosis and inheritance?\""
"An absence of DTRs in an elderly person is normal::normal/abnormal"
"What is the most likely underlying etiology of DVT in a young, Caucasian patient that presents with leg swelling, positive D-dimer, and shortness of breath? Factor V Leiden"
"protein C / S deficiency = ↑ risk of thrombosis::bleeding/thrombosis"
"Protein C or S deficiency causes increased risk of thrombotic skin necrosis with warfarin administration"
"Prothrombin 20210A mutation = ↑ risk of thrombosis::bleeding/thrombosis"
"Activated protein C resistance is suggestive of factor V Leiden::condition"
"Anticardiolipin, lupus anticoagulant, and anti-β2 glycoprotein are seen in antiphospholipid syndrome::syndrome"
"- Antiphospholipid syndrome is managed with high dose warfarin::treatment - Antiphospholipid syndrome and pregnancy is managed with aspirin and LMW heparin::treatment"
"A seizure that starts in one area and then involves more of the body is called a partial seizure with secondary generalization"
"What is the likely cause of anion gap metabolic acidosis in a patient with a recent generalized tonic-clonic seizure? Post-ictal lactic acidosis"
"Focal seizure with change in awareness is most likely a(n) complex partial seizure::condition"
"Focal seizure with no change in awareness is most likely a(n) simple partial seizure::condition"
"Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) presents with symptoms similar to Guillain-Barré syndrome::disease, though over a period of > 2 months (chronic)"
"Achondroplasia is characterized by short extremities with a relatively large head"
"Patient presents with vascular birthmark (port-wine stain) of the face Nevus flammeus; associated with Sturge-Weber syndrome"
"Sturge-Weber syndrome is a neurocutaneous disorder associated with ipsilateral leptomeningeal angiomas, which may cause seizures or epilepsy"
"What pathology is associated with microcephaly, intellectual disability, and a high-pitched cry? Cri-du-chat syndrome, cause by deletion of short arm of chromosome 5"
"Left shifts are usually seen with neutrophilia in the acute response to bacterial infection or tissue necrosis"
"Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) primarily infects the oropharynx, liver, and B cells"
"A(n) negative monospot test with symptoms of infectious mononucleosis suggests CMV infection"
"Acute leukemia is defined as a neoplastic proliferation of blasts > 20% in the bone marrow/blood; these crowd out other cells from the marrow (bone marrow failure)"
"Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is associated with Down syndrome; usually arises after the age of 5 years"
"T-ALL usually presents in teenagers (age group) as a(n) thymic mass, thus it is often referred to as acute lymphoblastic lymphoma"
"AML and ALL are neoplastic accumulations of myeloblasts or lymphoblasts (>20%) in the bone marrow"
"Myeloblasts::-blasts are usually characterized by positive cytoplasmic staining for myeloperoxidase (MPO)"
"One subtype of AML is acute promyelocytic leukemia (APML), which is characterized by t(15;17)"
"Acute promyelocytic leukemia is treated with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), a vitamin A derivative"
"Gingival hyperplasia with WBC blasts is suggestive of acute monocytic leukemia::condition"
"Acute megakaryoblastic leukemia is associated with Down syndrome; usually arises before the age of 5"
"Myelodysplastic syndrome::condition ≤ 20% myeloblasts ≤ AML::condition"
"CD5+ and CD20+ is suggestive of mantle cell lymphoma::condition or CLL"
"Small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) = chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) both have B-cells (CD5, CD20) SLL stays in the lymph node (therefore, peripheral lymphocytes is low, < 5000)"
"One complication of chronic lymphocytic leukemia is autoimmune hemolytic anemia"
"Patients with hairy cell leukemia typically present with massive splenomegaly due to expansion of the red pulp."
"Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma may present with lytic (punched-out) bone lesions and hypercalcemia"
"Mycosis fungoides typically presents in adults with dermatological symptoms"
"Sézary syndrome is characterized by atypical CD4+ cells with cerebriform nuclei seen on blood smear"
"Chronic myeloproliferative disorders (except CML) are associated with V617F JAK2 mutations - the mutation is in a gene encoding a(n) tyrosine kinase::enzyme, which causes tyrosine hyperphosphorylation and hypersensitivity of progenitor cells to cytokines, prolonging cellular growth"
"Chronic myeloid leukemia is a neoplastic proliferation of mature myeloid cells, especially granulocytes and their precursors (basophil, neutrophil, eosinophils)"
"CML may transform to acute myeloid (2/3) or lymphoid (1/3) leukemia"
"The treatment for polycythemia vera is phlebotomy; second-line therapy is hydroxyurea"
"Polycythemia vera is characterized by very increased RBC mass"
"Relative polycythemia (hemoconcentration) is characterized by decreased plasma volume"
"Which form of polycythemia is associated with dehydration and burns? Relative polycythemia (hemoconcentration)"
"Which form of polycythemia is associated with lung disease, congenital heart disease, and high altitude? Appropriate absolute polycythemia"
"Inppropriate absolute polycythemia is characterized by normal O2 saturation"
"Which form of polycythemia is associated with ectopic EPO production (e.g. malignancy, hydronephrosis)? Inappropriate absolute polycythemia"
"Myelofibrosis is a neoplastic proliferation of mature myeloid cells, especially megakaryocytes that activate fibroblasts"
"In myelofibrosis, megakaryocytes produce excess platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) and TGF-b causing activation of fibroblasts and marrow fibrosis"
"Lymphoma is divided into non-Hodgkin (60%) and Hodgkin lymphoma (40%)"
"Rituximab (anti-CD20 antibody) can be used to treat diffuse large B-cell and follicular lymphoma"
"Follicular lymphoma is distinguished from reactive follicular hyperplasia by lack of tingible body macrophages in germinal centers and presence of BCl-2"
"Mantle cell lymphoma is a neoplastic proliferation of small B cells (CD5, CD20+) that expands into the mantle zone"
"The African (endemic) form of Burkitt lymphoma typically involves the jaw"
"The sporadic form of Burkitt lymphoma typically affects children and involves the pelvis or abdomen"
"Burkitt lymphoma is characterized by a high mitotic index and \starry-sky\\" appearance due to presence of tingible-body macrophages\""
"Primary CNS lymphoma and Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma is most often seen in patients with HIV/AIDS"
"Reed-Sternberg cells secrete cytokines, which attract other inflammatory cells and cause \B symptoms\\" (fever"
"Lymphocyte-depleted = most aggressive form of Hodgkin Lymphoma"
"Which subtype of Hodgkin lymphoma is usually seen in the elderly and HIV+ individuals? Lymphocyte-depleted"
"Which type of lymphoma is associated with masses composed of lymphoid cells (vs. inflammatory reactive cells)? Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma::Hodgkin or non-Hodgkin"
"Staging is important and the strongest predictor of prognosis for Hodgkin::Hodgkin/Non-Hodgkin lymphoma"
"In multiple myeloma, neoplastic plasma cells stimulate osteoclast activating factor, which activates the RANK receptor on osteoclasts, leading to bone destruction"
"Multiple myeloma is associated with free light chain excretion in the urine, known as Bence Jones proteinuria."
"Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia typically presents with visual and neurologic deficits without CRAB symptoms of MM"
"CD1a+ and S-100+ cells are present in Langerhans cell histiocytosis::condition"
"NHL most commonly a result of proliferation of Mature B lymphocytes::cells"
"In diagnosis of Hodgkin Lymphoma what must be seen on histology and flow cytometry 1)Reed-Sternberg cells 2)A background of inflammatory cells 3)CD15 and CD30"
"Leukemia::Leukmia/Lymphoma = involves bone marrow and spread into the blood Lymphoma::Leukemia/Lymphoma = discrete tumor from lymph node"
"Leukemia::Leukemia/Lymphoma = increased WBCs in blood"
"Cell surface markers CD1-CD8 = T::B/T-cell Cell surface markers CD10-CD23 = B-cell"
"Lymphoma = proliferation of B/T cells causing painless lymph node enlargement and \B symptoms\\" of fever/chills/night sweats\""
"Hodgkin lymphoma can cause hypercalcemia - why? Cytokines from Reed-Sternberg → Activation of macrophages that express 1a-hydroxylase"
"Stage is the strongest predictor of prognosis in Hodgkin lymphoma"
"What are the mutated cells in Hodgkin lymphoma? B lymphocytes"
"In lymphocyte-predominant hodgkin lymphoma there are \popcorn\\" cells that express CD20\""
"Waldeyer's Ring is often affected by non-Hodgkin's::Hodgkin/Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma"
"Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma: t(14;18) → overexpression of Bcl-2 BCl-6 mutation, which regulates DNA transcription"
"Starry-sky morphology (below) EBV infection C-myc translocation = burkitt's lymphoma::lymphoma"
"EBV envelope glycoprotein binds CD21 to infect B-cells"
"Marginal zone lymphoma is associated with a t(11;18)"
"Which race/sex is most affected by lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin lymphoma?  Males of African decent"
"What is the likely cause of a person who starts behaving manic within 2 days of starting an anti-depressant? Anti-depressant induced mania"
"What nerve is responsible for foot inversion and plantar flexion? Tibial nerve"
"What movements are lost with peroneal (fibular) nerve lesion? eversion and dorsiflexion (\foot drop\\")\""
"What is the presentation of injury to the obturator nerve (L2-L4)? Loss of medial thigh sensation and loss of adduction"
"Diagnosis of early disseminated Lyme disease = ELISA then Western if need confirmation"
"Which antimalarial can result in retinopathy (bull's eye maculopathy)? Chloroquine"
"First line treatment for open-angle glaucoma is topical prostaglandins (latanoprost)"
"Natalizumab and rituximab have ↑ risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (JC virus)::condition"
"Patient with coma, absence of brainstem reflexes, and positive apnea test is suggestive of brain death::diagnosis"
"Psychogenic nonepileptic seizure (PNES) is a type of conversion disorder characterized by forced eye closure, side-to-side or body movements, memory recall of the event, and lack of post-ictal confusion"
"Pheochromocytomas are associated with: MEN 2A/2B Neurofibromatosis type 1::familial condition von Hippel-Lindau disease::familial condition"
"What two SSRIs are first line in post-MI treatment due to low potential for drug-reactions? Sertraline Escitalopram"
"The most common psychiatric complication of MS is depression"
"> 3 lifetime depressive episodes, suicide attempts, or episodes > 2 years is managed with lifelong::timeline antidepressant treatment"
"CNs 3, 4, V1, and 6 exit the skull through the superior orbital fissure"
"Biopsy of a(n) pilocytic astrocytoma shows Rosenthal fibers, which are eosinophilic, corkscrew fibers that stain GFAP (+)"
"Lymphoma diagnosis = excisional node biopsy::diagnostic test"
"What is the next step in management of lymphoma after a pt has been diagnosed via excisional biopsy? Staging"
"What neurological side effect is associated with vincristine use? Peripheral neuropathy"
"Adriamycin (doxorubicin) is associated with irreversible dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Cyclophosphamide::drug = hemorrhagic cystitis"
"One histological feature seen after an ischemic stroke is the presence of red neurons (eosinophilic change with pyknotic nuclei), which appear between 12 - 24 hours"
"Is carbamazepine use associated with teratogenic effects? Yes"
"Renal clearance of lithium is reduced in patients taking thiazide diuretics or other nephrotoxic agents (e.g. NSAIDs, ACE inhibitors)"
"Acute lithium toxicity presents with GI symptoms"
"One complication associated with lung cancer (pancoast tumor) is Horner syndrome due to compression of the stellate or superior cervical ganglia"
"Pinealoma (CNS tumor) may cause precocious puberty in males due to β-hCG production"
"Glioblastoma multiforme is characterized histologically by \pseudo-palisading\\""
"Entacapone is a peripheral COMT inhibitor used to increase the bioavailability of levodopa by preventing its peripheral methylation."
"Carbidopa is a peripheral DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor used to increase the bioavailability of levodopa"
"Presenilin-1 / presenilin-2 mutations lead to Alzheimer disease (early onset)::condition Apo-E4 mutations lead to Alzheimer disease (late onset)::condition"
"Motor weakness of elbow flexion and supination Sensory loss of lateral forearm Musculocutaneous nn damage"
"In diabetes patients, \glove and stocking\\" peripheral and autonomic neuropathy occur as a result of osmotic damage to Schwann cells\""
"CN IX (glossopharyngeal) provides parasympathetic innervation to the parotid gland for salivation"
"MOA: Alemtuzumab anti-CD52"
"Chiari II malformation is characterized by downward displacement of the cerebellar vermis and tonsils through the foramen magnum"
"Anti-NMDA Receptor Encephalitis is a paraneoplastic syndrome that presents with psychiatric distrubance, memory deficits, seizures, dyskinesias, autonomic instability, and language dysfunction Commonly associated with ovarian teratomas"
"Dopamine agonists (e.g. pramipexole) can cause hallucinations::psychiatric side effect"
"Tick-borne paralysis causes a(n) ascending::ascending or descending paralysis"
"Tricyclic antidepressants antagonize the H1 histamine receptor"
"Cryptococcus presents with signs of increased intracranial pressure due to the fungi clogging the arachnoid villi"
"Bell's palsy is managed with steroids +/- acyclovir::treatment"
"Prosthetic valve = ↑ risk of thromboembolism due to prosthetic valve thrombosis::MOA"
"What complication of shoulder dystocia manifests as a \claw hand\\""
"Anti-Yo, anti-Tr, and anti-Hu antibodies are associated with: Subacute cerebellar degeneration"
"Decreased sensation in perineal/genital region and fecal/urinary incontinence + post-childbirth = pudendal nerve injury"
"Essential tremor = propranolol::drug or primidone::drug"
"0-15 abduction of shoulder = supraspinatus muscle 15-100 abduction of shoulder = deltoid muscle > 100 abduction of shoulder = trapezius and serratus anterior muscles"
"The glossopharyngeal nerve supplies taste and general sensation to the posterior 1/3 of the tongue"
"Bethanechol is a cholinomimetic agent used to treat urinary retention"
"Damage to a posterior spinal artery affects ipsilateral::ipsilateral/contralateral/both dorsal column"
"Ménière disease = low-frequency sensorineural hearing loss"
"The most common cause of sixth nerve palsy is a(n) microvascular insult"
"Symptoms of increased intracranial pressure include headache that is worse in the morning::morning or evening, nausea/vomiting, and mental status changes"
"Can visual and auditory changes occur as a prodrome of syncope? Yes"
"If someone develops hallucinations while on carbidopa/levodopa, what should be your next step? Discontinue/decrease the carbidopa/levodopa"
"Tilt table test is used to diagnose vasovagal or orthostatic syncope"
"MAO inhibitors are contraindicated in patients taking the opioid analgesic meperidine"
"Occipital neuralgia can cause intense pain that feels like a sharp, jabbing, electric shock in the back of the head and neck"
"Wernicke encephalopathy is characterized by lesions in the periventricular and diencephalon (thalamus, hypothalamus) regions"
"What is the treatment for normal pressure hydrocephalus? Serial large volume lumbar punctures; if symptoms are relieved, then a ventriculoperitoneal shunt is placed"
"Cervical radiculopathy is treated conservatively (e.g. NSAIDs)::method"
"The paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF) sends axons that course within the contralateral MLF to reach the oculomotor nucleus"
"What is the underlying pathophysiologic cause of Wernicke encephalopathy? Thiamine (B1) deficiency"
"What are CK levels in steroid-induced myopathy and polymyalgia rheumatica? Normal"
"Anosmia (lack of smell) and raccoon eyes and CSF rhinorrhea = fracture of cribriform plate in the anterior cranial fossa"
"Pelvic fracture/trauma → loss of hip flexion, leg extension and loss of sensation of anterior thigh and medial leg and loss of patellar reflex = femoral nerve damage"
"Cytotoxic::Cytotoxic/Vasogenic edema is caused by the failure of ATP-dependent transport of sodium and calcium ions across the cell membrane, causing accumulation of water and swelling Vasogenic edema is caused by breakdown of the blood-brain barrier"
"Myotonic dystrophy = EMG::Diagnostic test and confirmed with genetic studies"
"Multiple myeloma is diagnosed with SPEP and UPEP and confirmed with a(n) bone marrow biopsy::test showing > 10% plasma cells"
"The encapsulated bacteria with vaccines are: strep. pneumoniae::bacteria haemophilus influenzae::bacteria neisseria meningitidis::bacteria"
"Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia = ↓ platelet count"
"CD5+, CD20+ and smudge cells in peripheral blood smear is suggestive of SLL/CLL::condition"
"What is the most common leukemia in adults > 60 years old? Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)"
"Complications of CLL / SLL include: Infection (hypogammaglobulinemia)::condition Autoimmune hemolytic anemia::condition Progression to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (Richter transformation)::condition"
"Leukemoid reaction = ↑ granulocytes and ↑::↑↓↔ LAP CML = ↑ granulocytes and ↓::↑↓↔ LAP"
"Leukemoid reaction refers to > 50,000 leukocyte count (mature neutrophils) often in response to infection::infection/cancer"
"Graft-versus-Host disease is due to graft T-cells attacking the host"
"Kidney stones, constipation and depression is suggestive of hypercalcemia::condition"
"Sideroblastic anemia often presents with two populations of RBCs, hypochromic and normochromic"
"The most common hypercoagulable disorder among Caucasians = Factor V leiden"
"Osteoblastic metastases may arise from: prostate cancer::cancer breast cancer::cancer and causes hypocalcemia and elevated alkaline phosphatase"
"What is the next step in a pregnant patient who has a microcytic anemia and normal iron studies? Hemoglobin electrophoresis"
"What physical exam findings can distinguish myelofibrosis and aplastic anemia? Hepatosplenomegaly"
"Patients with pernicious anemia and vitamin B12 deficiency need to be monitored for the development of what disease? Gastric cancer (both intestinal and carcinoid can occur)"
"What is the next best study in an elderly patient who comes in with headaches, blurry vision, peripheral neuropathy, and an elevated gamma gap? The ESR is elevated and retinal examination shows \sausage-link\\" (dilated"
"Lead poisoning causes a(n) microcytic anemia"
"Methotrexate::drug = reversed with leucovorin \rescue\\"::drug\""
"Type 1 HIT presents earlier (1-2 days) and causes a self-limited thrombocytopenia"
"Dextromethorphan may cause a falsely (+) PCP::drug urine drug screen"
"Do standard drug screens detect semisynthetic or synthetic opioids? No"
"Patient presents with coarse facies, cold (noninflamed) abscesses, retained primary teeth, high IgE, and derm issues (eczema) Hyper-IgE syndrome (Job syndrome)"
"Does heroin show up on a regular drug screen? Yes"
"Characteristics of Gaucher disease::genetic condition: Hepatosplenomegaly Pancytopenia Bone pain/fractures Failure to thrive and delayed puberty"
"What is treatment for the following types of bloody diarrhea? EHEC: supportive Shigella: antibiotics"
"What antibiotic should be added for treatment of septic arthritis if vancomycin is not working? Third-gen cephalosporin (ceftriaxone)"
"Nitrofurantoin::Drug can cause lung injury, characterized by bilateral, basilar reticular opacities and eosinophilia on labs"
"Likely organism in a child with rapid-onset high fever, gastroenteritis and mucoid-bloody diarrhea +/- seizures = Shigella::organism"
"Scrotal enlargement resembling \bag of worms\\" is seen in varicocele::condition\""
"Prepubertal boy with right-sided varicocele that does not decrease in size when supine is managed with abdominal U/S::next step"
"Reflex sympathetic dystrophy aka complex regional pain syndrome is extreme burning/tingling non-dermatomal pain after a(n) trauma::event"
"Complex regional pain syndrome shows patchy demineralization on X-ray and increased uptake in affected limbs on bone scintigraphy"
"Sudden-onset psoriasis is associated with HIV::infection and streptococcal pharyngitis"
"Lichen planus = often associated with chronic hepatitis C::infection"
"Pulmonary exam of CHF::CHF/COPD exacerbation will show bibasilar crackles, respiratory alkalosis +/- wheezing"
"Intermittent solid/liquid dysphagia may indicate: Eosinophilic esophagitis::condition Esophageal spasm::condition"
"Progressive solid dysphagia and chronic heartburn is suggestive of peptic stricture::condition"
"Can diastolic heart failure cause edematous lungs? Yes"
"Carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by median nerve compression presenting with numbness, pain, or tingling"
"Hereditary APC mutation results in familial adenomateous polyposis (FAP)::condition"
"Physicians should only accept nonmonetary gifts that directly benefit the patient (e.g. educational material, drug samples)"
"ADPKD or ARPKD = ↑::↑↓↔ BP, so treat with ACE-I/ARBs"
"Harsh, holosystolic murmur with palpable thrill: ventricular septal defect"
"Which renal stone is radiolucent (not visible) on imaging? Uric acid stone"
"Acute kidney injury causes a metabolic acidosis and hyperkalemia"
"Cirrhosis = hypo::hypo/hypernatremia"
"Class IA antiarrhythmics have a(n) intermediate binding affinity for the Na+ channel Class IB antiarrhythmics have a(n) low binding affinity for the Na+ channel Class IC antiarrhythmics have a(n) strong binding affinity for the Na+ channel"
"Use dependence is seen in what two classes of anti-arrhythmics? Class 1 and 4"
"Symptomatic PVCs is managed with β-blocker / CCB Stable ventricular tachycardia is managed with amiodarone::treatment"
"Bradycardia and a decreased cardiac output is seen in neurogenic::neurogenic/septic shock"
"Acute kidney injury can cause a non-anion gap or anion-gap acidosis"
"COPD patient with lethargy is due to hypoventilation leading to CO2 narcosis (PaCO2 > 60 mm Hg)"
"Primary amyloidosis is characterized by systemic deposition of AL amyloid, which is derived from Ig light chain"
"Gastrointestinal-specific opioid antagonists such as methylnaltrexone can be used in patients to reverse opioid-induced constipation"
"A positive urine urobilinogen assay is typically indicative of a buildup of unconjugated bilirubin"
"The best initial diagnostic test for chest pain is a(n) ECG"
"An infarction of the RCA::coronary artery may result in:"
"An infarction of the LCX::coronary artery may result in:"
"ECG shows STEMI → cardiac catheterization::next step"
"Hypotension and distended neck veins + clear lungs = right ventricular::location infarction"
"ECG (-) STEMI → cardiac enzymes::next test"
"CK-MB::CK-MB/troponin = reinfarction"
"Treatment for a(n) myocardial infarction can be remembered with the mnemonic \MONA BASH\\" Morphine Oxygen Nitrates Aspirin Beta-blockers ACE inhibitors Statins Heparin (Enoxaparin)\""
"What is the recommended treatment to reduce risk of stent thrombosis following drug-eluting stent placement? Dual antiplatelet therapy for at least 12 months"
"Stable::Stable/Unstable angina = chest pain during exertion and relieved with rest Unstable::Stable/Unstable angina = chest pain during rest or ↑ frequency/intensity with minimal exertion"
"(+) stress test and unstable angina is managed with cardiac catheterization::next step"
"What is the most common cause of sudden cardiac arrest in the immediate post-infarction period in patients with acute MI? Re-entrant ventricular arrhythmias (e.g. ventricular fibrillation)"
"What complications following an acute MI produce a new holosystolic murmur? 1. Papillary muscle rupture (MR murmur at the apex) 2. Interventricular septum rupture (heard at the left sternal border, frequently has an accompanying thrill and step-up in oxygen)"
"One complication that may occur 3 - 14 days post-MI is ventricular free wall rupture, which causes cardiac tamponade"
"Cannon A Waves are caused by contraction of the right atrium against a closed tricuspid valve (AV block, PVC, Vtach) Cannon A Waves are distinguished from large A waves because large A waves occur every heart cycle::every heart cycle or intermittingly"
"Dressler syndrome is a(n) autoimmune phenomenon that results in fibrinous pericarditis following an MI (> 1 month)"
"What is the treatment of choice for Dressler's syndrome? NSAIDs"
"ECG changes associated with acute pericarditis include widespread, diffuse ST segment elevation and/or PR depression"
"Acute pericarditis commonly presents with sharp pain that is aggravated by inspiration and relieved by sitting up and leaning forward"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with sharp, localized chest pain that is worsened with inspiration and tender to palpation? Costochondritis"
"Young smoker with episodic chest pain worse at night + transient ST-segment elevation = Vasospastic (Prinzmetal) angina"
"Prinzmetal angina = nitrates::drug class or CCBs::drug class"
"2nd degree Mobitz type I (Wenckebach)::(aka) AV block is characterized by progressive lengthening of the PR interval until a beat is \dropped\\"\""
"Multiple P wave morphologies, irregular HR and associated with lung disease (e.g. COPD) = multifocal atrial tachycardia::arrhythmia"
"Wide QRS = ventricular::location rhythm Narrow QRS = atrial rhythm"
"> 3 consecutive premature ventricular beats (i.e. widened QRS) at a HR > 120 bpm Ventricular tachycardia::arrhythmia"
"Stable ventricular tachycardia is managed with amiodarone::treatment or lidocaine Unstable ventricular tachycardia is managed with cardioversion Pulseless ventricular tachycardia is managed with defibrillation"
"↓ PR interval and widened/slurred QRS (delta wave) = Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome::arrhythmia"
"Unstable WPW = cardioversion Stable WPW = Procainamide or ibutilide"
"Atrial flutter is most commonly caused by a re-entrant circuit around the tricuspid annulus"
"Atrial flutter is treated similarly to atrial fibrillation::rhythm"
"Stable atrial fibrillation is managed with rate > rhythm control::treatment Unstable atrial fibrillation is managed with cardioversion"
"Torsades::rhythm"
"What is the first-line therapy for conscious and stable patients with torsades de pointes? IV magnesium"
"ECG: regular and narrow complex tachycardia with rate > 150 Clinical: brief episodes of palpitations, dizziness, chest pain, dyspnea, syncope Supraventricular tachycardia::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with abrupt onset tachycardia and palpitations? Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT)"
"Vagal maneuvers (carotid sinus massage, cold-water immersion, Valsalva) increase parasympathetic tone at the AV node::location, which helps terminate supraventricular tachycardias"
"Low voltage ECG and electrical alternans is suggestive of pericardial effusion (cardiac tamponade)::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an aortic dissection that develops hypotension, JVD, and pulsus paradoxus? Cardiac tamponade"
"Atrial fibrillation (no p wave) = starts in LA (pulmomary vein)::LA/RA Atrial flutter (sawtooth) = starts in RA (tricuspid valve)::LA/RA"
"Atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response in hemodynamically stable patients is managed with rate control"
"Hyperthyroidism may lead to atrial fibrillation::arrhythmia"
"Systolic ejection murmur cresc/decresc, louder w/ squatting, softer w/ valsalva. and parvus et parvus/tardus pulse aortic stenosis::murmur"
"What is the treatment for aortic stenosis? Valve replacement"
"What valvular defect is heard as a holosystolic murmur at the cardiac apex with radiation to the axilla? Mitral regurgitation"
"Continuous machine like murmur PDA::murmur Wide fixed and split S2 ASD"
"A delayed, rumbling late diastolic murmur is indicative of what pathology? Mitral stenosis"
"Patient presents with a blowing diastolic heart murmur with bounding pulses, widened pulse pressure, head bobbing, and eponym parade = aortic regurgitation"
"MCC of aortic regurgitation in: developing countries: rheumatic heart disease developed countries = bicuspid valve"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a wide pulse pressure and \pounding heart\\" sensation"
"What is the recommended anticoagulation for pulmonary embolism in a patient with severe renal insufficiency (GFR < 30 mL/min/1.73m2)? Unfractionated heparin followed by warfarin"
"Non-life-threatening PE is managed with anticoagulation (Xa inhibitor > heparin → warfarin)::treatment Life-threatening PE (e.g. RBBB, hypotension, syncope) is managed with tPA vs. thrombectomy::treatment"
"Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) is diagnosed with echocardiography::best test"
"Suspected pneumonia = X-ray::test"
"What is the treatment plan for acute decompensated heart failure? Lasix (furosemide) - most important intervention Morphine - limited evidence for use Nitrates Oxygen Position"
"What viral pathogens are most commonly associated with viral myocarditis? Coxsackie B Adenovirus"
"Pulmonary HTN is defined as a pulmonary arterial pressure greater than 25 mm Hg at rest"
"Chronic alcohol::substance or cocaine::substance abuse = dilated cardiomyopathy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a recent URI that presents with CHF, dilated ventricles with diffuse hypokinesia, and low ejection fraction on echocardiogram? Dilated cardiomyopathy"
"Causes of restrictive cardiomyopathy include amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, post-radiation fibrosis, and hemochromatosis"
"Chronic hypertension = concentric::eccentric/concentric LV hypertrophy = diastolic::systolic/diastolic HF"
"Medications that have been shown to improve long-term survival in patients with LV systolic dysfunction include: 1. β-blockers 2. ACE inhibitors 3. ARBs 4. Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists 5. Hydralazine and nitrates in African American patients"
"Pneumonia::diagnosis"
"COPD::diagnosis"
"heart > 50% AP diameter cephalization of pulmonary vessels Kerly B lines interstitial edema CHF::diagnosis"
"Abscess::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an HIV patient that presents with a two-month history of low-grade fever and a productive cough that is worst in the morning (CXR below)? Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection"
"Thickened peritracheal stripe and splayed carina bifurcation left atrial enlargement (2/2 mitral stenosis) or cancer (2 diagnoses)"
"Suspected pleural effusion is managed with diagnostic thoracocentesis::next step"
"Most transudative pleural effusions are caused by: CHF::condition::most common cirrhosis::condition nephrotic syndrome::condition"
"Exudative effusion and glucose < 30 mg/dL = rheumatoid or empyema"
"Bloody exudative effusion = malignancy or PE"
"Exudative effusion and lymphocytosis = TB effusion::cause"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion is characterized by the following values: pH > 7.2 Glucose > 60 mg/dl WBC < 50,000/mm3Gram stain/culture: negative Uncomplicated Parapneumonic Effusion"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion is characterized by the following values: pH < 7.2 Glucose < 60 mg/dl WBC > 50,000/mm3Gram stain/culture: negative Complicated Parapneumonic Effusion"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion is characterized by the following values: pH < 7.2 Glucose < 60 mg/dl WBC > 50,000/mm3Gram stain/culture: positive Empyema"
"Exudative pleural effusions must meet one of Light's criteria, which are: Pleural protein/serum protein > 0.5 Pleural LDH/serum LDH > 0.6 or Pleural LDH 2/3 upper limit of normal serum LDH"
"Diagnosis? Pleural effusion"
"S1Q3T3 ECG abnormality = pulmonary emboli"
"Hampton's hump on CXR is suggestive of PE::condition"
"What is the first step in management of pulmonary embolism with the following Wells score? Wells score >4: anticoagulation with heparin (before diagnostic testing) Wells score ≤4: diagnostic testing"
"PE test of choice = CT angiography::diagnostic test"
"PE prophylaxis for patients with ↑ bleeding risk or recurrent DVTs is managed with IVC filter::treatment"
"Mechanical ventilation in patients with ARDS should use low::low/high tidal volumes and high::low/high PEEP"
"#1 cause of ARDS is sepsis"
"ARDS = ↔::↑↓↔ PCWP"
"FEV1/FVC < 70% = obstructive::obstructive/restrictive lung disease"
"Restrictive lung disease is characterized by an FEV1/FVC ratio > 70% of predicted"
"The diagnosis of asthma can be made in patients with normal or increased DLCO and a >12% increase in FEV1 following bronchodilator administration"
"Obstructive lung disease = ↓::↑↓↔ FVC and ↓↓::↑↓↔ FEV1"
"Restrictive lung disease = ↓::↑/↓/↔ FVC and ↓::↑/↓/↔ FEV1"
"↓ DLCO = emphysema::emphysema/asthma"
"COPD is the coexistence of chronic bronchitis and emphysema"
"Increased vascular markings and ↔ DLCO = chronic bronchitis::chronic bronchitis / emphysema"
"Patients with COPD who have resting PaO2 < 55 mmHg or SaO2 < 88% are candidates for long-term home O2 treatment"
"Patients with COPD and signs of right heart failure or hematocrit > 55% should be started on home oxygen if PaO2 < 59 mmHg or SaO2 < 89%"
"First line therapy in COPD = muscarinic blockers (tiotropium/ipratropium)::drug class"
"Antibiotics should be given to patients with COPD exacerbation if they have an increase in ≥ 2 of the following symptoms: dyspnea, cough, or sputum production (cardinal symptoms)"
"All patients with acute COPD exacerbation should receive inhaled bronchodilators and PO/IV corticosteroids"
"Best prognostic indicator of COPD = FEV1"
"Is smoking cessation associated with a mortality benefit in patients with COPD? Yes"
"Oxygen::Treatment is proven to prolong life in hypoxemic COPD patients (< 88%, 55 mmHg)"
"Which 2 adult vaccines are recommended for all COPD patients? Pneumococcal; Influenza"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an extensive smoking history who presents with digital clubbing and sudden-onset arthropathy of the hand/wrist? Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy"
"Suspected duodenal ulcer is managed with PPI and antibiotics::treatment"
"FEV1 ≤ 80%::% = moderate persistent asthma (+ LABA) FEV1 ≤ 60%::% = severe persistent asthma (+ oral steroid)"
"Silicosis may present with \eggshell\\" calcification of the hilar lymph nodes\""
"Silica may impair macrophages and disrupt phagolysosome formation, increasing susceptibility to TB"
"Asbestosis = lower::upper/lower lobes"
"Elevated ACE and hypercalcemia is most likely sarcoidosis::condition"
"What is the treatment for sarcoidosis? Steroids"
"Interstitial lung disease is characterized by a(n) low DLCO and a(n) restrictive (FEV/FVC > 70%; FVC < 80%)::obstructive/restrictive pattern"
"Extrinsic causes of restrictive lung disease are characterized by a(n) normal DLCO"
"What is the next step in management for a solitary pulmonary nodule discovered on routine CXR? Compare with previous CXR; if no previous imaging, get CT"
"Are lung adenocarcinomas typically centrally or peripherally located? Peripherally"
"Horner's syndrome and upper extremity pain is suggestive of pancoast tumor (superior sulcus)::condition"
"Small cell carcinoma::lung neoplasm = SIADH"
"Bronchial hamartomas are benign::benign or malignant"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease is characterized by continuous, mucosal/ submucosal inflammation and crypt abscesses on biopsy? Ulcerative colitis"
"Which form of inflammatory bowel disease is characterized by transmural inflammation and non-caseating granulomas on biopsy? Crohn disease"
"What IBD complication presents with colonic dilation on X-ray and fever, tachycardia, leukocytosis, and/or anemia? Toxic megacolon"
"Bowel wall thickening (\string sign\\") = Crohn disease::IBD\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with fever, jaundice, tender hepatomegaly, and AST:ALT ratio > 2? Alcoholic hepatitis"
"The absolute values of AST and ALT in alcoholic hepatitis are almost always < 500 IU/L"
"ALT > 1000 U/L likely indicates: Acute viral hepatitis::condition Drug toxicity (acetaminophen)::condition Shock liver (ischemia d/t hypotension)::condition Autoimmune hepatitis::condition"
"What is the next step in management for patients with hyperbilirubinemia and a predominantly cholestatic pattern of liver function? Abdominal ultrasound (or CT)"
"Gilbert syndrome is diagnosed by elevated levels of unconjugated bilirubin with normal LFTs and CBC"
"Elevated alkaline phosphatase and GGT is specific for biliary pathology"
"> 60 y.o. and isolated elevation in ALP is suggestive of Paget disease of bone::bone condition"
"What is the preferred treatment for symptomatic patients with Paget disease of bone? Bisphosphonates"
"Antimitochondrial antibodies (AMAs) = primary biliary cirrhosis::diagnosis?"
"Anti-smooth muscle antibodies are suggestive of autoimmune hepatitis::condition"
"Low serum ceruloplasmin with elevated urinary copper excretion suggests a diagnosis of Wilson disease"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with liver disease and neuropsychiatric symptoms? Wilson disease"
"What bacteria is the most common cause of community-acquired bacterial meningitis? Streptococcus pneumoniae"
"Meningitis is treated empirically with ceftriaxone and vancomycin; add ampicillin if Listeria is suspected"
"Who gets meningitis from Listeria? (1) Neonates (2) Elderly"
"In someone with suspected meningitis, the first step is to get blood cultures"
"What are the recommended empiric antibiotics for immunocompromised patients with suspected bacterial meningitis? Vancomycin Ampicillin Cefepime"
"What prophylactic abxs are given to persons in close contact with an individual with Neisseria meningitidis infection? (3) Rifampin Ciprofloxacin Ceftriaxone"
"In addition to empiric antibiotics, what other medication should be administered to patients with suspected bacterial meningitis? Corticosteroids"
"Treatment of community-acquired pneumonia: Outpatient w/o risk factors is managed with macrolide OR doxycycline Inpatient (non-ICU treatment) is managed with respiratory fluoroquinolones"
"Which cause of community-acquired pneumonia is associated with COPD? Haemophilus influenzae"
"Klebsiella is a common cause of aspiration pneumonia in alcoholics"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with high-grade fever, cough, diarrhea, confusion, and hyponatremia? CXR reveals a right lower lobar infiltrate. Legionella pneumoniae (Legionnaire's disease)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a college student with a recent viral URI that presents with high-grade fever, productive cough with hemoptysis, and leukopenia? CXR reveals bilateral alveolar infiltrates and multiple cavitations. Community-acquired methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) infection"
"Francisella tularensis is a zoonotic bacteria that forms caseating granulomas with regional lymphadenopathy"
"Low risk population (+) PPD > 15 mm::mm Mid risk population (+) PPD > 10 mm::mm High risk population (+) PPD > 5 mm::mm"
"What is the treatment for tuberculosis (TB)? Latent → isoniazid (INH) and B6 Active → RIPE"
"Following a (+) PPD, first order a(n) a chest x-ray::diagnostic test to differentiate between active and latent TB"
"What drug can turn bodily fluids orange? Rifampin"
"What neurological side effect is associated with isoniazid use? Peripheral neuropathy"
"What tuberculosis drug is most commonly associated with liver injury? Isoniazid"
"Sideroblastic anemia may be caused by vitamin B6 deficiency"
"Which antimycobacterial agent may precipitate gout attacks? Pyrazinamide"
"What is the main adverse effect of Ethambutol? Optic neuropathy (↓ visual acuity, red-green color blindness, central scotoma)"
"Acute bacterial endocarditis likely indicates staph. aureus::bacteria"
"Subacute bacterial endocarditis following a dental procedure likely indicates viridans group strep.::bacteria infection"
"What valve is most commonly damaged by S. viridans? Mitral"
"IV drug users::what demographic are susceptible to acute::acute or subacute bacterial endocarditis of the tricuspid valve from staphylococcus aureus::most common cause?"
"Infective endocarditis is managed with blood cultures::next step"
"Antibiotic prophylaxis for infective endocarditis is recommended for patients with a(n) prosthetic heart valve or previous IE prior to certain invasive procedures (e.g. tooth extraction)"
"What viral testing should be offered to a patient with skin rash, fever, arthralgias, lymphadenopathy, chronic diarrhea, and mucosal ulcerations? HIV testing"
"What anti-retroviral drug is associated with pancreatitis? Didanosine"
"Abacavir::NRTI may result in lethal hypersensitivity and requires HLA-B*5701 testing before use in treating HIV"
"Which anti-retroviral agent is associated with neuropsychiatric side effects (e.g. vivid dreams, depression)? Efavirenz (NNRTI)"
"postexposure HIV prophylaxis = 3 drug (2+1) for 4 weeks"
"Pneumonia with bilateral interstitial infiltrates and AIDS is suggestive of PCP::diagnosis"
"What enzyme is often elevated in patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia? LDH"
"What is the most accurate test in the diagnosis of PCP pneumonia? Bronchoalveolar lavage (with silver stain)"
"TMP-SMX (Bactrim) can be used in prophylaxis and treatment of pneumocystis pneumonia in patients without sulfa drug allergies"
"What is the treatment of choice for an HIV patient with Pneumocystis pneumonia and a PaO2 of 54 mmHg (normal 75-105 mmHg)? Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and corticosteroids"
"HIV with CD4 < 50 and bloody diarrhea = Cytomegalovirus (CMV)"
"HIV with CD4 < 50, high fever and watery diarrhea is suggestive of MAC::diagnosis"
"What is the likely chief complaint in a patient diagnosed with Cryptosporidium parvum infection? Prolonged, profuse, watery diarrhea (typically 10 - 14 days)"
"Cryptosporidium oocysts can be visualized with a(n) Acid-Fast stain"
"HIV patient with ring-enhancing lesion, next step? Empiric tx with Pyrimethamine & sulfidiazine"
"Primary CNS lymphoma is typically characterized by EBV DNA in the CSF and a single ring-enhancing lesion on MRI in an HIV-infected patient"
"Temporal lobe encephalitis = HSV-1::infection"
"What CSF findings are associated with HSV encephalitis? Protein: high Glucose: normal WBC: high lymphocytes RBC: high"
"Subacute signs of increased ICP (headache, fever) in an HIV individual is suggestive of Cryptococcal meningoencephalitis::diagnosis"
"Neutropenic patient with fever and neutrophil count < 500 is suggestive of neutropenic fever::diagnosis"
"If someone has neutropenic fever, immediately start giving empiric broad spectrum antibiotics that cover pseudomonas (e.g. cefepime)::treatment If the fever continues for 5-7 days, also add broad antifungal therapy (amphotericin B)"
"How do you treat rocky mountain spotted fever? Doxycycline"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with flu-like symptoms without a rash after being bitten by a tick two weeks ago? Laboratory exam reveals leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and elevated LFTs. Ehrlichiosis"
"What is the empiric treatment for ehrlichiosis? Doxycycline"
"What is the likely causative organism in an immunocompromised patient with multiple lung cavitary lesions and brain abscesses identified on imaging? Sputum cultures grow partially acid-fast, gram-positive, branching rods. Nocardia"
"What is the first step in evaluating hyponatremia? Measure serum osmolality"
"Euvolemic hyponatremia is suggestive of SIADH::condition or hypothyroidism"
"Hypothyroidism = eu::hypo/eu/hypervolemic hyponatremia"
"Mild euvolemic or hypervolemic hyponatremia is managed with fluid restriction::first line treatment"
"Rapid correction of hyponatremia = central pontine myelinolysis Rapid correction of hypernatremia = cerebral edema"
"Hypernatremia is due to loss of water"
"What is the treatment of choice for severe hypovolemic hypernatremia? 0.9% saline (isotonic) until euvolemic, then D5W (hypotonic)"
"What is the treatment of choice for mild hypovolemic hypernatremia? D5W"
"Euvolemic / hypervolemic hypernatremia is managed with D5W::treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with muscle cramps/weakness and hyporeflexia with U waves and broad, flat T waves on ECG? Hypokalemia"
"Metabolic alkalosis is managed with urine chloride::next step"
"Metabolic acidosis is managed with checking the anion gap::next step"
"Non-anion gap metabolic acidosis is broadly caused by two things: 1) RTA 2) Diarrhea (HCO3- loss in gut)"
"Urine pH > 5.5 and hypokalemia = distal RTA (type 1)::renal tubular acidosis"
"Urine pH < 5.5 and hypokalemia = proximal RTA (type 2)::renal tubular acidosis"
"Urine pH < 5.5 and hyperkalemia = hyperkalemic RTA (type 4)::renal tubular acidosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for type II renal tubular acidosis? Potassium citrate"
"What is the recommended treatment for type IV renal tubular acidosis? Fludrocortisone"
"Prerenal azotemia = ↑::↑↓↔ serum BUN/Cr ratio"
"Muddy brown casts in the urine are diagnostic of acute tubular necrosis"
"Acute tubular necrosis::Renal condition is commonly associated with: contrast agents::drug class aminoglycosides::antibiotic drug class lead::toxin cisplatin::drug class"
"Fever, rash, hematuria and eosinophils in urine is characteristic of interstitial nephritis::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who overdosed on cocaine and presents with elevated K+ and creatine phosphokinase (CPK)? Rhabdomyolysis (leads to ATN/renal failure)"
"What is the most common cause of death in dialysis and renal transplant patients? Cardiovascular disease"
"Chronic renal failure (uremia) = ↑::↑↓↔ bleeding time and ↔::↑/↓/↔ PT/PTT"
"Hematuria is managed with urinalysis::next step"
"Hematuria and GU cancer = painless::painful/painless"
"The presence of RBC casts/dysmorphic RBCs in the urine indicates that hematuria/pyuria is of glomerular::glomerular/non-glomerular origin"
"Hematuria and varying proteinuria is suggestive of nephritic::nephritic/nephrotic syndrome"
"Hypertension (Na+ retention) → edema = nephritic::nephritic/nephrotic syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who presents with periorbital swelling and hematuria three weeks after a skin infection? Post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis"
"Goodpasture syndrome occurs due to auto-antibodies against the glomerular and alveolar basement membranes"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young male with hemoptysis and hematuria without history of sinusitis? Goodpasture's disease"
"Purpuric rash on legs, abdominal pain and arthralgia following URI = IgA vasculitis (Henoch-Schonlein purpura)::vasculitis"
"The pentad of symptoms seen in thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) may be remembered using the mnemonic FAT RN: Fever Anemia (MAHA) Thrombocytopenia Renal symptoms Neurologic symptoms"
"Treatment of TTP is plasma exchange"
"PT/PTT values between DIC and TTP/HUS? Elevated in DIC"
"What autoantibody is classically elevated in granulomatosis with polyangiiitis? ANCA (typically c-ANCA)"
"Asthma, eosinophils and p-ANCA is suggestive of churg-strauss syndrome::diagnosis"
"History of hepatitis B, renal failure, mesenteric ischemia, motor/sensory neuropathy and purpura/nodules = polyarteritis nodosa::vasculitis"
"Nephrolithiasis = Non-contrast CT scan::imaging Nephrolithiasis and pregnancy = U/S::imaging"
"What is the most common type of kidney stones? Calcium oxalate stones"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an adolescent with recurrent kidney stones and hexagonal crystals on urinalysis? Cystinuria"
"What is the likely microorganism causing a UTI in a young female with an elevated urine pH and renal calculus on imaging? Proteus mirabilis"
"Uric acid kidney stones are often seen in diseases with increased cell turnover (e.g. leukemia, myeloproliferative disorders)"
"A kidney stone < 5 mm is managed with hydration A kidney stone > 5 mm - 2 cm is managed with shock wave lithotripsy A kidney stone > 2 cm is managed with surgery"
"Patient presents with periorbital and/or peripheral edema, proteinuria (>3.5 g/day), hypoalbuminemia, and hypercholesterolemia Nephrotic syndrome::diagnosis"
"Most common 1° nephrotic syndrome in caucasian adults = membranous nephropathy::glomerular disease"
"\Spikes\\" on basement membrane"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is associated with HIV, heroin use, and obesity? Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS)"
"\Tram-track\\" appearance of capillary loops of glomerular basement membranes on light microscopy Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis::diagnosis\""
"Which types of nephrotic syndrome are associated with hepatitis B infection? Membranous nephropathy (more common) and MPGN::2"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is most commonly associated with renal vein thrombosis? Membranous nephropathy"
"Nephrotic syndrome and solid tumor = membranous nephropathy::glomerular disease"
"Iron deficiency anemia can be differentiated from thalassemia by an elevated red cell distribution width (RDW)"
"Thalassemia = ↓↓ MCV and ↑ iron levels"
"What type of anemia is characterized the following laboratory values? MCV: normal Serum iron: low Ferritin: high TIBC: low Anemia of chronic disease"
"How do the following laboratory values change in sideroblastic anemia? Serum iron: increased TIBC: decreased % Saturation: increased Ferritin: increased"
"How is megaloblastic anemia due to B12 vs. folate deficiency differentiated (symptom and molecule)? B12 = neurological dysfunction; methylmalonic acid (MMA)"
"What pathologic RBC is seen in liver disease and abetalipoproteinemia? Acanthocytes"
"Patient presents with painful blue fingers/toes and hemolytic anemia Cold agglutinin disease"
"Warm hemolytic anemia is associated with drugs, cancer, and SLE"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with hemolytic anemia with an increased MCHC and negative Coombs test? Hereditary spherocytosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with abdominal pain, dark urine, and hepatic vein thrombosis with evidence of hemolytic anemia on laboratory exam? Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African-American male that presents with fever, jaundice, dark urine and the peripheral smear below? Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency"
"What is the next step in management for a child with suspected immune thrombocytopenia that presents with mucosal bleeding (prolonged epistaxis, bleeding from the GI tract, or intracranial hemorrhage)? IVIg or corticosteroids"
"Von Willebrand disease = ↔::↑↓↔ PC, ↑::↑↓↔ BT, ↔::↑↓↔ PT and ↑::↑↓↔ PTT"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recurrent hemarthrosis after mild trauma and a family history significant for a maternal uncle with a similar issue? Hemophilia A or B"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 5-day-old baby that did not receive perinatal care and presents with easy bruisability with an elevated prothrombin time? Vitamin K-deficient bleeding"
"factor VII::clotting factor = short half life (early loss in liver disease)"
"Cirrhosis = ↑::↑/↓ PT time and ↓::↑/↓ platelets"
"Cirrhosis = normal factor 8 levels"
"Severe sepsis, obstetric complications, cancer, burns, trauma, major surgery, acute pancreatitis, APL Are all possible causes of DIC::hematological problem"
"What hereditary disease renders patients prone to warfarin-induced skin necrosis? Hereditary protein C/S deficiency"
"How can someone with aortic dissection develop an early descescendo diastolic murmur and increased creatinine? Extension of aortic dissection into the aortic valve and kidneys"
"Adhesive capsulitis = passive and active::passive/active/both ROM issues Rotator cuff issues = active ROM issues"
"Acute decompensated heart failure and hypoxemia / respiratory distress should be given noninvasive ventilation::what form of treatment?"
"What effect may loop diuretics have on serum K+ levels? Decreased (hypokalemia)"
"Diuretics can induce hepatic encephalopathy by inducing hypokalemia and metabolic alkalosis"
"What musculoskeletal pathology is associated with narrowed joint space, osteophytes, and subchondral sclerosis on radiographs? Osteoarthritis"
"Rheumatoid arthritis::RA/OA = morning stiffness > 1 hour"
"Red hot swollen joint is managed with arthrocentesis::next step"
"Synovial fluid analysis in patients with gout is characterized by needle-shaped crystals made of monosodium urate, that are negatively-birefringent"
"Synovial fluid analysis in patients with pseudogout is characterized by rhomboid-shaped crystals made of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate (CPPD), that are weakly positively-birefringent"
"Antinuclear antibodies (anti-Smith and anti-dsDNA) SLE::diagnosis"
"Which three drugs are used to treat acute gout and pseudogout? NSAIDs > colchicine > glucocorticoids"
"anti-histone antibodies are suggestive of drug-induced SLE::condition"
"Which type of scleroderma is associated with the anti-Scl-70 (DNA topoisomerase I) antibody? Diffuse scleroderma"
"anti-U1 RNP antibodies are suggestive of mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD)::condition"
"Anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP) antibody is specific for rheumatoid arthritis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young adult female with symmetric, migratory, polyarticular arthritis/arthalagias with brief morning stiffness? The patient also has painless oral ulcers and splenomegaly. Laboratory examination reveals pancytopenia, RBCs and proteinuria on urinalysis. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)"
"What is the treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus? Long-term therapy (everyone): hydroxychloroquine Acute exacerbations (flare): corticosteroids Active glomerulonephritis: IV cyclophosphamide → PO mycophenolate mofetil"
"Hyperkalemia and hyperpigmentation are seen in primary::primary/secondary adrenal insufficiency"
"Nephrolithiasis = non-contrast CT scan::imaging or ultrasound::imaging"
"Pearly papule with overlying telangiectasia = basal cell carcinoma::neoplasm"
"Basal cell carcinoma = excisional biopsy::diagnostic tool"
"Basal cell / squamous cell carcinoma is managed with mohs surgery::treatment, esp. for face or resection with margin"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with a history of significant sun exposure that presents with a rough/flaky lesion? It does not itch or bleed. Actinic keratosis"
"Melanoma = excisional biopsy::diagnostic step"
"First line treatment in prolactinoma is medication (dopamine agonist)"
"What is the next best step in diagnosing/treating a thyroid nodule that has low TSH? RAIU scan"
"Thyroid nodule and normal or elevated TSH is managed with FNA::next step"
"Which subtype of thyroid cancer is associated with psammoma bodies and \orphan annie-eye nuclei\\"? Papillary thyroid carcinoma\""
"Which subtype of thyroid cancer typically invades blood vessels and metastasizes hematogenously? Follicular thyroid carcinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a long history of Hashimoto thyroiditis that develops a rapidly enlarging, firm goiter with dysphagia, hoarseness, and fever? Thyroid lymphoma"
"After determining someone has cushing's syndrome (24 hour urine cortisol, late night salivary, or low-dose dexamethasone suppression test), one needs to test ACTH levels"
"What initial tests should be performed in a patient with suspected adrenal insufficiency? 1. Morning serum cortisol 2. Plasma ACTH 3. Cosyntropin stimulation test"
"How does secretion of the following hormones change in secondary adrenal insufficiency? Glucocorticoids: decreased Androgens: decreased Mineralocorticoids: normal (no change)"
"What is the best screening test for primary hyperaldosteronism? Aldosterone to renin ratio"
"Fasting Glucose: Normal: < 100 Impaired fasting glucose (pre-diabetes): 100-125 Diabetes: > 126"
"HbA1c ≥ 6.5%::% = diabetes HbA1c < 5.7%::% = normal"
"first line type 2 diabetes therapy (after lifestyle) = metformin (biguanides)::diabetes drug class"
"Blood glucose < 800 = DKA::DKA/HHNK Blood glucose > 800 = HHNK::DKA/HHNK"
"DKA = usually type 1::1/2 diabetes"
"Goals of treatment for DKA include: IV fluids (restore blood volume) IV insulin (restore glucose and stop ketogenesis) Replace [K] if < 5.2"
"DKA::HHNK/DKA = onset in less than a day HHNK::HHNK/DKA = onset over > 5 days"
"Switch from NS to D5W when glucose < 200 in dka"
"What drug class should be added to a patients medications if they have diabetes and microalbuminuria? ACE inhibitors"
"What is the HgbA1C goal in diabetics? < 7%"
"Mucosal neuromas and marfanoid body habitus = MEN 2B"
"Medullary thyroid carcinoma or pheochromocytoma = MEN 2::1/2"
"Ischemic::Ischemic/Hemorrhagic strokes are more common"
"MRI::CT or MRI is more sensitive for detecting ischemic stroke"
"Thrombolytic therapy (e.g. tPA) is indicated for patients with ischemic stroke if given within 3 - 4.5 hours of symptom onset"
"Stroke ≤ 4.5 hrs = tPA::drug stroke > 4.5 hrs = aspirin/statins::drug(s)"
"What drug should be added to the management of stroke in a pt that was already on aspirin? Dipyridamole"
"After the initial presentation of an ischemic stroke, what additional tests should you do to assess for a cause? ECG to assess for atrial fibrillation/MI Echo to assess for any infected cardiac valves or thrombi in heart Carotid ultrasound to assess for carotid stenosis"
"Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) should be considered for symptomatic patients (e.g. TIA, stroke) with carotid stenosis between 70 - 99% to reduce future stroke risk"
"Nimodipine (CCB)::drug = ↓ risk of vasospasm 2° to subarachnoid hemorrhage"
"Which artery is likely affected in a stroke resulting in motor/sensory deficits in the lower limb and urinary incontinence? Anterior cerebral artery"
"Lateral medullary (Wallenberg) syndrome is typically caused by occlusion of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery"
"What is the first-line therapy for aborting status epilepticus? IV/IM benzodiazepines"
"Status epilepticus is seizure activity for > 5 minutes::time or > 2 seizure events without regaining consciousness"
"\Triphasic bursts\\" or \\"sharp wave complexes\\" on EEG = creutzfeldt jakob\""
"Initial test for subarachnoid hemorrhage = non-contrast CT"
"Unilateral pounding headache a/w nausea, photophobia, and phonophobia is suggestive of migraine::diagnosis"
"Unilateral, sudden-onset headaches located peri-orbital is suggestive of cluster headache::diagnosis"
"Progressively worsening headache worse in the AM and focal neurologic deficits = tumor::cause of headache"
"Severe unilateral headache and jaw claudication is suggestive of giant cell arteritis::condition"
"Fever and nuchal rigidity is suggestive of meningitis::condition"
"Headache, diplopia, papilledema and normal mental status is suggestive of pseudotumor cerebri (idiopathic intracranial hypertension)::condition"
"Guillain-Barré is managed with IVIG::treatment or plasmapheresis::treatment"
"Which microorganism is the most frequent precipitant of Guillain-Barré syndrome? Campylobacter jejuni"
"What is the best initial test for Myasthenia Gravis? Anti-ACh Receptor antibody test"
"What is the initial drug of choice for symptomatic treatment of myasthenia gravis? Pyridostigmine (long-acting acetylcholinesterase inhibitor)"
"Acute MS is managed with Corticosteroids::Treatment Chronic MS is managed with interferon β / glatiramer / natalizumab"
"Which form of dysphagia, is characterized by coughing, choking, or nasal regurgitation on swallowing? Oropharyngeal::Oropharyngeal or esophageal"
"What is the preferred initial study to evaluate patients with suspected oropharyngeal dysphagia? Videofluoroscopic modified barium swallow"
"Dysphagia with solids / liquids = motility::motility/obstructive disorder Dysphagia with solids = obstructive disorder"
"Dysphagia to solids/liquids= barium swallow::test → manometry::procedure"
"What test is most accurate for diagnosis of achalasia? Esophageal manometry"
"GERD first step in management is managed with PPI::PPI/24 hour pH monitoring GERD confirmatory diagnosis is managed with 24 hour ambulatory pH monitoring GERD alarm symptoms is managed with endoscopy (for biopsy) GERD and complications (stricture, Barrett's, refractory) is managed with surgery (fundoplication)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with poorly controlled HIV that presents with a two day history of mild odynophagia and dysphagia? Oral examination reveals thrush*. Candidal esophagitis::Viral/Candidal esophagitis"
"Does achalasia result in dysphagia to solids, liquids, or both? Both"
"What hormone analog is useful for the treatment of variceal hemorrhage? Octreotide (somatostatin analog)"
"Which type of esophageal cancer is associated with GERD, Barrett's esophagus, and obesity? Adenocarcinoma::SCC or adenocarcinoma"
"squamous cell carcinoma esophagus = irritants::irritants/GERD adenocarcinoma esophagus = GERD::irritants/GERD"
"“Dyspepsia” refers to a spectrum of epigastric symptoms, including heartburn, “indigestion,” bloating, and epigastric pain/discomfort"
"Choledocholithiasis = stones blocking the CBD::structure"
"Acute pancreatitis is usually caused by: gallstones (50%)::condition alcoholism (30%)::condition"
"Acute pancreatitis = CT scan with contrast::imaging modality"
"Most common cause of chronic pancreatitis is alcoholism (95%)::condition"
"In addition to antibiotics, risk factors for C. difficile colitis include age > 65 and PPI use"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with night sweats, weight loss, and splenomegaly? Laboratory exam reveals leukocytosis with increased levels of basophils and myelocytes. Chronic myeloid leukemia"
"CML = imatinib (Tyrosine kinase inhibitor)::drug"
"Which form of acute leukemia is associated with CALLA and TdT proteins? ALL"
"Auer rods (MPO inclusions) are suggestive of AML (esp. APL)::condition"
"The abnormal promyelocytes seen in APML contain Auer Rods that contain MPO granules that increase risk for DIC (dice)::condition"
"The cells in hairy cell leukemia stain positive for tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a middle-aged patient with pancytopenia and splenomegaly without lymphadenopathy and the peripheral smear below? Hairy cell leukemia"
"Hairy cell leukemia = cladribine (2-CDA)::drug or pentostatin::drug"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with recurrent infections and with hepatosplenomegaly, lymphadenopathy, and marked lymphocytosis on physical/laboratory exam? Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)"
"Lymphoma = painless lymphadenopathy"
"Reed-Sternberg cells are seen in Hodgkin lymphoma::condition"
"Lymphocyte-rich = best prognosis of Hodgkin lymphoma"
"Non-Hodgkin::Hodgkin/Non-hodgkin = common extra-nodal involvement (GI, skin, CNS)"
"Hodgkin lymphoma::condition is managed with ABVD chemotherapy regimen Non-Hodgkin lymphoma is managed with R-CHOP therapy"
"The signs/symptoms of multiple myeloma may be remembered with the mnemonic \CRAB\\": C: hyperCalcemia R: Renal involvement A: Anemia/Amyloidosis B: Bone lytic lesions (osteolytic) / Back pain\""
"Asymptomatic monoclonal (≤ 10%) plasma cell expansion is suggestive of MGUS::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with pruritus, especially after bathing, splenomegaly, headaches, and pancytosis on laboratory exam? Polycythemia vera"
"Polycythemia vera is characterized by low levels of erythopoietin"
"All patients with carotid artery stenosis should receive medical therapy with anti-platelets (aspirin) and statin"
"The autosomal dominant form of polycystic kidney disease typically presents in young adults"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a rash that began as small papules and progressed to erythematous linear plaques with oozing yellow fluid (image below)? The patient was cleaning bushes around the house a few days prior to rash formation. Allergic contact dermatitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with minimal smoking history who presents with progressive dyspnea, cough, and bilateral basilar hyperlucency on CXR? α1-antitrypsin deficiency"
"Aortic stenosis is typically caused by: Calcification (old, normal wear and tear)::most common cause Congenital bicuspid valve (middle age)::cause Rheumatic fever::cause in developing countries"
"GERD and dysphagia is managed with endoscopy::next step"
"What are 2 things that CI non-cardiac surgery? EF < 35% and MI w/in 6 months"
"Acute interstitial nephritis affects the interstitium and the renal tubules::tubules/glomeruli"
"High CO2 and respiratory acidosis = COPD::COPD/CHF exacerbation Low CO2 and respiratory alkalosis = CHF exacerbation"
"Blood 2+ RBCs 0 / hpf Rhabdo/Myoglobinuria::diagnosis"
"Pilonidal disease is managed with surgical drainage::treatment"
"How do the following values change when moving the cutoff point of a screening test from B to A? Sensitivity: increased Specificity: decreased PPV: decreased NPV: increased"
"When raising the cutoff point for a disease, the specificity and PPV will increase"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 30-year-old woman that presents with recurrent episodes of pneumonia and diarrhea over the past 3 years? History and physical exam are otherwise unremarkable. Common variable immunodeficiency"
"What test is used to diagnose common variable immunodeficiency (CVID)? Quantitative measurement of serum immunoglobulins"
"Pressure ulcer with necrosis is managed with debridement::next step"
"What is the likely reason for recurrence of tinea cruris? Foot examination shows tinea pedis. Autoinfection"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an immunocompromised patient with fever, pleuritic chest pain, hemoptysis and pulmonary nodules with ground-glass opacities (halo sign) on CT? Invasive aspergillosis"
"Anemia of chronic kidney disease is managed with EPO::treatment"
"Mild uncomplicated pyelonephritis = oral::oral/IV complicated pyelonephritis = IV::oral/IV"
"Congenital bicuspid aortic valve increases the risk of infective endocarditis::condition"
"What is the most common malignancy associated with painless hematuria in adults? Bladder tumors"
"Scuba diver develops SOB, chest pain, hyperresonance to percussion and decrease in breath sounds is suggestive of pneumothorax::diagnosis"
"Renal osteodystrophy is often seen in renal failure::population patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism"
"(+) FOBT → colonoscopy::next step"
"Post-URI, acute-onset, constant vertigo, N/V, (-) hearing loss = vestibular neuritis::labyrinthitis/vestibular neuritis Post-URI, acute-onset, constant vertigo, N/V, (+) hearing loss = labyrinthitis::labyrinthitis/vestibular neuritis"
"Pulsus paradoxus (↓ amplitude of systolic BP by > 10 during inspiration) is most likely cardiac tamponade::condition"
"Severe anemia = high-output::type heart failure"
"What type of white blood cell may be elevated in primary adrenal insufficiency? Eosinophils"
"Evidence of protein in the urine (albumin) is indication for ACE-inhibitor::Drug for those with diabetes"
"Left: normal Right: osteonecrosis::diagnosis"
"Is weight loss or exercise more important to reduce risk of osteoarthritis? Weight loss"
"What syndrome is characterized by a triad of respiratory distress, neurologic dysfunction, and petechial rash? Fat embolism syndrome"
"Secondary pulmonary hypertension may arise with recurrent pulmonary embolism or microthrombi"
"What musculoskeletal pathology presents with pain on abduction and worsened by overhead activities? The pain is worsened at night. Rotator cuff tendinopathy"
"Rotator cuff tendinopathy is due to impingement of the supraspinatus tendon"
"Patient with morning stiffness, X-ray of knees show osteopenia and subcartilaginous cysts around joints is suggestive of RA::diagnosis"
"Post-prandial vomiting and alopecia is suggestive of gastric bezoar::diagnosis"
"Williams syndrome::congenital condition is associated with supravalvular aortic stenosis"
"Myoglobinuria and hemoglobinuria is suggestive of acute tubular necrosis::renal condition"
"Anuria after removing catheter = urinary tract obstruction::cause"
"B::B/T-cell disorders all present with recurrent sinopulmonary and GI defects"
"Patient presents with anaphylaxis following a blood transfusion IgA deficiency"
"Asymptomatic SIADH = fluid restriction Symptomatic SIADH = 3 % saline"
"Periorbital edema, ↓ reflexes/muscle weakness, bradycardia, weight gain and menorrhagia is seen in hypothyroidism::condition"
"Bone pain, bone scan shows ↑ uptake and ↑ alkaline phosphatase is suggestive of Paget::diagnosis"
"Acute pancreatitis may present with absent bowel sounds due to ileus::GI complication"
"All clostridium species are spore-forming, anaerobic::aerobic/anaerobic, and produce toxins"
"ARDS causes damage to the alveolar-capillary interface, which causes increased capillary permeability"
"Iron deficiency anemia = ↓ reticulocyte count"
"Mitral valve prolapse::Murmur may be associated with atypical chest pain and anxiety"
"Mild pneumonia, non-productive cough, and patchy, diffuse interstitial infiltrate = atypical pneumonia (mycoplasma, legionella, chlamydia)::typical or atypical pneumonia"
"Painless lymphadenopathy, B symptoms and pruritus is seen in Hodgkin lymphoma::diagnosis"
"ETEC::E. coli = traveler's diarrhea (watery)"
"Dilation of the pancreatic duct and common bile duct (double duct sign) may occur with tumors of the head of the pancreas"
"What is the test of choice for confirming the diagnosis of Zenker's diverticulum? Barium contrast esophagram"
"Zenker diverticulum::diagnosis may present with dysphagia, \gurgling\\" in the throat"
"What nerve is most commonly damaged by humeral mid-shaft fractures? Radial nerve"
"What is the immediate treatment for severe hypercalcemia (> 14mg/dL or symptomatic)? NS and calcitonin"
"PPD (-) in those with severe HIV::infection"
"Clubbing of the fingers and toes with swelling and pain is managed with Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy::diagnosis with chest x-ray::next step"
"Small bowel obstruction is characterized by hyper-active bowel sounds initially"
"What type of syncope is likely in a person who has had an MI? Cardiac syncope"
"Erysipelas::Erysieplas/Cellulitis = raised, sharp edges with good demarcation Cellulitis::Erysieplas/Cellulitis = flat edges with poor demarcation"
"Eplerenone and spironolactone are K+ sparing diuretics that act by competitively antagonizing the mineralocorticoid receptor"
"Methemoglobinemia is typically treated with methylene blue or vitamin C"
"Smoking::Condition causes centriacinar emphysema in upper lungs α1-antitrypsin deficiency::Condition causes panacinar emphysema in lower lungs"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for pseudotumor cerebri? Acetazolamide +/- Furosemide"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an African American woman who presents with Raynaud's phenomenon and signs of right-sided heart failure (RV heave, dyspnea, peripheral edema, hepatomegaly)? Pulmonary arterial HTN secondary to systemic sclerosis"
"Cervical radiculopathy = MRI::diagnostic test"
"Polyarthritis, recurrent fever and salmon-pink rash is suggestive of adult Still's disease::diagnosis"
"Does PE cause low glucose or pH in pleural fluid? No::Yes/No"
"Mode::Mean/Mode = least affected by outliers Mean::Mean/Mode = most affected by outliers"
""
"What percentage of a sample lies within 1,2,3 standard deviations of the mean? 68/95/99.7"
""
"What is the variance for a standard deviation of 10? 10^2=100"
"Calculate the standard error: Variance = 100 n=25 SE=sqrt (100/25)= 2"
"Z-score = and 1 1 SD above the mean"
"Sampling bias is an example of selection bias"
"Which of the results above show confounding variable and which shows effect modification? 1 = effect modification (effect maintained when gene x present) 2 = confounding (elimination of effect when risk stratify into smokers and non-smokers)"
"An observer expecting treatment group to show signs of recovery is more likely to document positive outcomes; this is an example of the Pygmalion::Pygmalion/Hawthorne effect"
"A slowly progressive cancer is more likely detected by a screening test than a rapidly progressive cancer. This is an example of length/lag-time bias"
"This is an example of a(n) cross-over study"
"Absolute Risk Reduction = 50 - 30 = 20% Relative Risk Reduction = 1 - (3/5) = 2/5 = 40% Number needed to treat = 1 / ARR = 1 / .2 = 5 people"
"The power of a study is calculated by 1 - β"
"Calculate the 95% confidence interval (p<.05): Sample Mean = 200 Standard Error = 5 For 95%, Z=1.96: CI = 200 +/- 1.96(5)"
"If the 95% CI for a mean difference between 2 variables includes 0, then there is NOT::is/is not a significant difference between the two groups"
"If the 95% CI for odds ratio or relative risk includes 1, H0 is not::is/is not rejected"
"In regards to the Pearson Correlation Coefficient, the closer the absolute r value is to 1, the stronger the correlation between 2 variables"
"A study finds the correlation coefficient between plasma homocysteine levels and folic acid intake to be -.8 (p <0.01). How much of the variability in plasma homocysteine levels is explained by folic acid intake? 64%"
"What equation is used to calculate odds ratio using the table below? "
"Construct a 2x2 table and calculate the risk ratio "
"Can you typically calculate the risk ratio in case-control studies? NO - must use odds ratio"
"For rare (< 10%)::rare/common diseases, OR = RR. In these cases, case-control studies can actually calculate RR"
"A high sensitivity::sensitivity/specificity test is useful for screening in diseases with low prevalence"
"A high specificity::sensitivity/specificity test is useful for confirmation after a positive screening test"
"Positive predictive value varies directly with pretest probability (prevalence)"
"Negative predictive value varies inversely with pretest probability (prevalence)"
"When raising the cutoff point for a disease, the specificity and PPV will increase::increase or decrease"
""
"Sensitivity/Specificity = fixed::fixed/vary depending on prevalence in population tested PPV and NPV = vary::fixed/vary depending on prevalence in population tested"
""
"If sensitivity is 100%, then the false negative is zero::##"
"If specificity is 100%, then FP is zero::##"
"Precision is decreased by random error in a test"
"Accuracy is decreased by systematic error in a test"
"The closer an ROC curve is to a right angle, the better::worse/better the test"
"For an ROC curve, if the area under the curve (AUC) is: 0.5 = bad::good/bad test 1.0 = good::good/bad test"
"Patients in treatment group spend more time in highly specialized hospital units is an example of which type of bias? Procedure"
"Phase I of clinical trials uses a small number of healthy volunteers"
"A(n) triple-blind study refers to the additional blinding of the researchers analyzing the data"
"Neutrophils filled with staph aureus is suggestive of CGD::diagnosis"
"What are the B/T cell counts in CGD? Normal"
"Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID)::Condition involves defective IL-2R or ADA deficiency resulting in ↓↓ T cell and B cell maturation"
"Androgens::Androgens/Estrogen = libido in both sexes"
"infant with biphasic stridor / wheezing / dysphagia improving with extension is suggestive of vascular ring::diagnosis"
"Paresthesias with compression of cubital tunnel = ulnar nerve"
"Ulnar nerve lesion at the elbow::elbow/wrist leads to referred pain to the forearm"
"Painless testicular mass in a young man that cannot be transilluminated is suggestive of testicular tumor::diagnosis"
"Syringomyelia::condition is associated with Chiari I malformation Meningomyelocele::condition is associated with Chiari II malformation"
"Chiari II malformation commonly results in aqueductal stenosis, which causes hydrocephalus"
"Diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis with Amsel's criteria (3/4): thin-white discharge vaginal pH > 4.5 positive whiff-amine test clue cells on white mount"
"The features of a chromosome 22q11 microdeletion may be remembered with the mnemonic \CATCH 22\\": C: Cleft palate A: Abnormal facies T: Thymic aplasia C: Cardiac abnormalities (truncus arteriosus"
"Why might a person with BPH have gram (-) rods in his urine? BPH predisposes to UTIs"
"BPH = painless prostatitis = painful"
"Sickle cell hemolysis = folate::vitamin deficiency = macrocytic anemia"
"Some VSDs are asymptomatic at birth due to ↑ pulmonary vascular resistance::reason"
"hyaline casts in urine is most likely caused by hypovolemia (concentrated urine)::condition"
"Gallstone ileus is a hepatobiliary cause of small bowel obstruction that presents with hyperactive bowel sounds, dilated loops of bowel, and pneumobilia"
"Pulmonary contusion::ARDS/pulmonary contusion = patchy infiltrates occurring < 1 day post-trauma ARDS = bilateral infiltrates occurring 1-2 days after trauma"
"Continuous machine-like murmur is most likely a(n) PDA::condition"
"Large::sSze PDAs may present with: widened pulse pressure and bounding pulses failure to thrive recurrent respiratory tract infections"
"SBP is often seen in cirrhotics and patients receiving peritoneal dialysis"
"Laughing and squealing = 4 months::age"
"Infant with hypotonia, cardiomegaly and hepatomegaly is most likely Pompe disease (type II)::condition"
"What is the underlying cause, imaging, and treatment of hemorrhagic shock in a patient with decreased breath sounds, tracheal deviation, and dullness to percussion? Hemothorax; X-ray; Thoracostomy (chest tube)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with previous Hodgkin lymphoma status-post chemoradiation therapy that presents with dyspnea, JVD, ascites, and hepatomegaly? Constrictive pericarditis"
"Three causes of holosystolic murmurs? MR/TR or VSD"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with projectile, non-bilious emesis immediately after eating and an olive-shaped mass in the abdomen? Pyloric stenosis"
"(+) progestin withdrawal bleed = anovulation::cause (-) progestin withdrawal bleed = low estrogen::hormone, outflow blockage, or Asherman's"
"↑ PCWP worsening after IVF and arrhythmias is suggestive of myocardial contusion::diagnosis"
"Acute otitis media and mastoid swelling/anteriorly rotated ear is suggestive of mastoiditis::diagnosis with CT scan::next test"
"What test/imaging study is used for diagnosis of acute diverticulitis? CT scan (oral and IV contrast)"
"Before undergoing vigorous exercise, a(n) exercise stress test should be performed in those with cardiac risk factors"
"Tetralogy of Fallot is a congenital heart disease that is characterized by: 1. Pulmonary stenosis 2. Right ventricular hypertrophy 3. Overriding aorta 4. Ventricular septal defect (VSD)"
"Tetralogy of Fallot (ToF) is a cyanotic congenital heart defect that presents with right ventricular impulses, a single S2 sound, and a systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border"
"Patients with Tetralogy of Fallot may squat in response to cyanotic spells, which decreases right-to-left shunting by increasing systemic vascular resistance (SVR)"
"Adrenoleukodystrophy causes the accumulation of very-long-chain fatty acids in the adrenals, testes, and white matter, presenting as cognitive, visual, hearing, and motor dysfunction"
"The most common respiratory complication of drowning is ARDS, caused by the aspiration of liquid that washes out alveolar surfactant"
"B"
"What is the recommended management for symptomatic acute bronchitis? NSAIDs, bronchodilators (symptomatic treatment)"
"Diagnosis of strep throat in adults::population is based around the CENTOR criteria: C: absent cough (+1) E: tonsillar exudates (+1) N: anterior cervical lymphadenopathy (node) (+1) T: fever (temperature) (+1) OR: under 15 years (+1) OR over 44 years (-1)"
"(-) rapid strep in child/adolescent → culture::next step"
"CENTOR criteria in adults: < 1::#: no testing / treatment::next step 2-3: rapid strep and/or throat culture::next step > 4: empiric antibiotics::next step"
"What kind of laboratory measurement is used to measure LDL levels (e.g. to start statin therapy)? Fasting lipid profile"
"6 hours post-op urinary retention is managed with re-cath::next step"
"Severe post-op pain is managed with PCA::treatment"
"Patients who complain of persistent RUQ pain after cholecystectomy should be evaluated for post-cholecystectomy syndrome"
"Long acting injectable anti-psychotics are used for non-compliant::type patients: Risperidone DEPOT Fluphenazine DECANOATE Haloperidol DECANOATE"
"Bruton agammaglobulinemia and CVID is managed with IVIg::treatment"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman at 32 weeks gestation that presents with decreased fetal movement? Heart tones are heard by Doppler. Non-stress test"
"Hypertensive emergency = IV nitroprusside, labetalol, and nicardipine"
"Coarctation of the aorta and HTN / HF is managed with surgical resection::treatment"
"BMI > 40 BMI > 35 and comorbid condition (diabetes, HTN) Gastric bypass::surgical option"
"What congenital heart defect presents with a harsh systolic ejection murmur at the left upper sternal border and single S2? Tetralogy of Fallot"
"X-ray of the spine shows focal, sclerotic, hyperdense lesions is suggestive of prostate cancer::diagnosis X-ray shows widespread osteopenia and subperiosteal bone resorption is suggestive of renal osteodystrophy::diagnosis"
"Young patient with recent flu, hemoptysis and multilobar cavitary infiltrates is suggestive of CA-MRSA pneumonia::diagnosis"
"Pulmonary hypertension can be accompanied with tricuspid regurgitation::murmur"
"Three associated cardiac problems with Marfan: "
"Multifocal atrial tachycardia is managed with treat underlying cause::treatment"
"Patient with coronary artery disease and acute migraine refractory to NSAIDs = prochlorperazine/metoclopramide (D2 antagonist)::antiemetic"
"What is the best step in management if a patient taking isoniazid develops mild elevations in serum aminotransferases? Continue taking isoniazid, with regularly monitored liver function tests"
"Intra::Intra/Extrahepatic cholestasis = no biliary dilation Extra::Intra/Extrahepatic cholestasis = biliary dilation"
"Biopsy of the colon shows a mononuclear infiltrate within the lamina propria and a thickened subepithelial collagen band is suggestive of microscopic colitis::diagnosis"
"Microscopic colitis is characterized by chronic, watery::bloody/watery diarrhea that may occur during fasting and at night"
"Microscopic colitis is associated with smoking::habit, NSAIDs::pain reliever, PPIs::GERD-related, and SSRIs"
"First line treatment of acute angle-closure glaucoma include β-blocker, α2 agonist (eye drops) and a systemic carbonic anhydrase inhibitor (e.g. acetazolamide)"
"Pilocarpine contracts pupillary sphincter muscle, which may be used to treat closed-angle glaucoma"
"Acute kidney injury = metabolic acidosis::acidosis/alkalosis and hyper::hyper/hypokalemia Loop diuretic = metabolic alkalosis::acidosis/alkalosis and hypo::hyper/hypokalemia"
"What kind of study design is shown below? Factorial design"
"What kind of study design is this? Parallel study"
"People with sickle cell trait can develop splenic infarction in the setting of stressors (air travel, dehydration)"
"Are nonpharmacologic treatments or pharmacological treatments used first in treatment of OA? Non-pharm"
"Is hyperpigmentation found in primary biliary cholangitis? Yes"
"Immunodeficiency = ↑ risk of hodgkin lymphoma"
"Blood pressures should be lowered slowly (10-20% in the first hour) for hypertensive emergency due to possibility of hypoperfusion"
"If hypercalcemia is found on labs, you need to checking ionized calcium / correct for albumin::next step (not treatment)"
"What viral testing should be offered to a patient with fever, generalized maculopapular rash, and generalized nontender lymphadenopathy? HIV testing"
"What is the diagnostic procedure of choice for thyroid nodules in an euthyroid patient? FNA"
"Asthma or CF and productive cough and eosinophilia / ↑ IgE levels is suggestive of Allergic Bronchopulmonary Asperigillosis (ABPA)"
"Years of copious mucopurulent cough associated with recurrent bacterial infection is suggestive of bronchiectasis::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an obese patient with daytime hypercapnia, hypoxemia, and respiratory acidosis? Obesity hypoventilation syndrome"
"Meralgia paresthetica can be improved by losing weight or wearing looser clothes"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with a CHA2DS2-VASc score > 2? Oral anticoagulants"
"Reading the PPD test involves checking the size of the induration::induration/erythema"
"Sickle cell disease and fever is managed with antibiotics::next step"
"Middle aged person with unilateral hip pain on palpation, external rotation, or resisted abduction associated with overuse = Trochanteric bursitis"
"Diabetes and (-) urine microalbumin and LDL > 190 is managed with statin::next step"
"Chondromalacia patellae presents similarly to patellofemoral pain syndrome (pain worsened with using stairs, prolonged sitting)"
"Patients with suspected Guillain-Barré syndrome should have their pulmonary function assessed with serial spirometry"
"Childhood-onset fluency disorder = stuttering"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child staying in a refugee camp that presents with inflammation and thickening of the tarsal conjunctivae bilaterally? Trachoma"
"Screening for congenital heart disease includes pre- and post-ductal pulse oximetry"
"< 2 yo in the winter with initial URI symptoms (fever, stuffy nose) followed by wheezing and cough is suggestive of bronchiolitis::diagnosis"
"Craniotabes (soft skull), widened wrists, rachitic rosary and genu varum is suggestive of Rickets::diagnosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for a newborn of a mother with active hepatitis B? HBV vaccine and HBIG"
"Narrowing of the proximal trachea → barky cough and inspiratory stridor is suggestive of croup::diagnosis"
"Acute onset of cough in a child with SOB; X-ray shows hyperinflation and physical exam shows decreased breath sounds with unilateral wheezing: Foreign body aspiration; diagnose with bronchoscopy::Diagnosis and next step?"
"History of acute rheumatic fever but currently asymptomatic - need prophylaxis? Yes - with PCN"
"Delayed resorption and clearance of alveolar fluid leading to fluid in fissures / perihilar linear streaking on X-ray is suggestive of TTN::diagnosis"
"Myotonic dystrophy = autosomal dominant::inheritance pattern"
"What is the inheritance pattern of the following muscular dystrophies? Duchenne → X-linked recessive Becker → X-linked recessive Myotonic dystrophy → Autosomal dominant"
"Child ages 2-5 with a smooth, non-tender abdominal mass that does not cross the midline and is associated with hematuria/HTN? Wilms tumor (nephroblastoma)"
"Ppx. and treatment of gonorrhea conjunctivitis? Topical erythromycin and IM third-gen cephalosporin"
"Asymptomatic coin swallow is managed with observe / repeat x-ray::next step Symptomatic coin swallow is managed with endoscopy::next step"
"What pathogens are the most common cause of acute, unilateral lymphadenitis in children? (2) Staphylococcus aureus > Streptococcus pyogenes"
"Fever, urticaria, and polyarthralgia 1-2 weeks after taking β-lactams or TMP-SMX is suggestive of serum-sickness reaction::diagnosis"
"Septic arthritis not responding to vancomycin is managed with adding ceftriaxone::next step"
"Neonatal polycythemia may present with respiratory distress due to increased blood viscosity"
"Edwards syndrome and holosystolic murmur at left sternal border is suggestive of VSD::diagnosis"
"Pilocytic astrocytomas may be found in the posterior fossa or supratentorial"
"Bilious vomiting, abdominal distension and hematochzeia in an infant is suggestive of midgut volvulus::diagnosis"
"Fabry disease::lysosomal storage disease presents with a triad of peripheral neuropathy, angiokeratomas, and hypohidrosis (lack of sweat)"
"Optic atrophy and globoid cells is suggestive of Krabbe disease::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 3-12 year old boy that presents with chronic hip/knee pain with limited internal rotation/abduction of the affected hip? The gait is antalgic. Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease"
"Methemoglobinemia is associated with decreased (85%) O2 saturation on pulse oximetry and normal PaO2"
"Presence of blood-tinged stools in young infant who is healthy and active should raise suspicion of protein-induced proctocolitis What is this caused by? Milk or soy protein Management? Continue breastfeeding and advise mother to avoid dairy and soy products"
"DTaP vaccine and anaphylaxis is managed with do not give any more DTaP::next step DTaP vaccine and encephalopathy/neuro disorder is managed with hold pertussis::next step"
"Pathological findings of Reye syndrome (virus and aspirin) include microvesicular steatosis of hepatocytes"
"Screening for autism occurs at 18 months and 2 years"
"Lytic bone lesion, eczema and hypernatremia/polyuria is suggestive of Langerhans cell histiocytosis::diagnosis"
"Top three causes of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis? Non-typeable H. influenza > S. pneumonia > Moraxella"
"Treatment of strabismus includes patching or blurring of the normal eye"
"Indications for a contrast voiding cysturethrogram (VCUG) in a child with a urinary tract infection is: 1. Children with >2 episodes of febrile UTIs 2. A child with a first febrile UTI and any of the following: a. Renal anomaly detected on U/Sb. Fever >102.2 and a pathogen other than E. coli"
"First words other than mama and dada = 12 months::age"
"Non-emergency situation and parent refuses life-saving treatment for child is managed with geting a court order to do treatment::next step"
"Bruising, petechiae, bleeding, non-tender lymphadenopathy and hepatosplenomegaly is suggestive of acute lymphoblastic leukemia::diagnosis"
"What is the antibiotic treatment for epiglottitis? Ceftriaxone and Vancomycin"
"What are the next steps in a child with bacterial meningitis and NO alarm symptoms? Blood cultures → lumbar puncture → IV antibiotics"
"What is the dose-limiting side effect of hydroxyurea? Myelosuppression"
"What is the recommended treatment for chlamydial conjunctivitis? Oral macrolide"
"What is the fluid of choice for initial resuscitation of a child with moderate-severe dehydration? IV isotonic solutions (e.g. NS or LR)"
"Rapid Diagnosis Newborn with macrocephaly, hydrocephalus, diffuse intracranial calcifications, chorioretinitis: Toxoplasmosis"
"Thalassemia = ↔ erythrocyte count (RBC) and ↔ RDW Iron deficiency anemia = ↓ erythrocyte count (RBC) and ↑ RDW"
"Swallow battery, magnet, or sharp item is managed with endoscopic removal::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis and treatment in an infant that presents with ipsilateral head tilt and contralateral chin deviation with a neck mass that does not transilluminate on ultrasound? Congenital muscular torticollis; stretching program (surgery at 1 year)"
"Children with UTIs are usually treated with a(n) 3rd-gen cephalosporin"
"Infant with hypoglycemia, hepatomegaly and high TGs, uric acid, and lactate = von Gierke disease due to deficiency of glucose-6-phosphatase"
"Recurrent skin, mucosal (e.g. tooth) infections without purulence and neutrophilia is suggestive of LAD deficiency::diagnosis"
"Cyanosis developing soon after birth that does not correct with oxygen = ductal-dependent congenital heart defect::category of diagnoses"
"Hepatosplenomegaly, bone pain, lymphadenopathy, thrombocytopenia (bruising) and anemia (pallor) is suggestive of ALL::diagnosis"
"Sinus infection and headache, fever, early-morning vomiting is suggestive of brain abscess::diagnosis"
"↓ Mobility and bulging of TM is suggestive of Acute otitis media::diagnosis"
"Isolated horner syndrome and cervical paravertebral mass is suggestive of neuroblastoma::diagnosis"
"> 50 word vocabulary in 2 word phrases = 2 years old::age"
"External rotation of the thigh upon hip flexion is suggestive of SCFE::diagnosis"
"Primary amenorrhea is absence of menarche in girls age > 13 years old with no secondary sexual characteristics"
"Jejunal atresia::diagnosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for widespread non-bullous impetigo or extensive bullous impetigo? Oral antibiotics (e.g. cephalexin, clindamycin)"
"Young boy presents with intellectual disabilities, dystonia, gout, and self-mutilating behavior: Lesch-Nyhan syndrome::Diagnosis?"
"Bilious emesis → insert NG tube → abdominal X-ray::next step?"
"10-25 word vocabulary = 18 months::age"
"Duchenne::Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy presents before 5 years of age Becker::Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy presents as a teenager"
"Adolescent with back pain worsened by lumbar extension with a palpable step-off is suggestive of Spondylolisthesis::diagnosis"
"Rabies post-exposure prophylaxis = IVIG and vaccine"
"Birth weight should be regained by age 2 weeks"
"Acne vulgaris is due to chronic inflammation of hair follicles and associated sebaceous glands, which secrete its contents through a(n) holocrine mechanism"
"What is the likely underlying cause of muscle pain in a patient taking metoprolol, lisinopril, aspirin, and simvastatin? Statin-induced myopathy"
"Metastatic breast cancer and confusion = hypercalcemia::electrolyte disturbance"
"Infant with recurrent strep pneumonia and h. influenza infections = B-cell disorder::type of immunodeficiency"
"Newborns with Rh incompatibility typically have severe anemia at birth"
"Renin = angiotensinogen → AT1 ACE = AT1 → AT2"
"Claudication of calf only = PVD of femoropopliteal distribution::vessel(s)"
"Chronic watery diarrhea, crampy abdominal pain and bloating after meals is suggestive of lactase deficiency::diagnosis"
"Painful thyroid often following viral infection is suggestive of subacute (De Quervain) thyroiditis::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with weight loss, tachycardia, anti-thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibodies, and the physical exam findings below? Thyroid gland: normal size, non-tender TSH: low Free T4: high Radioactive iodine uptake: < 5% Painless (silent) thyroiditis"
"A person with a long history of pneumonia and chronic mucopurulent cough develops hemoptysis is suggestive of bronchiectasis::diagnosis"
"Necrotizing dilation and destruction of bronchi is characteristic of bronchiectasis::condition"
"Severe headache, neck stiffness and hemiparesis is managed with CT scan::next step"
"Decreased sensation to pinprick and nystagmus and hypertonia = PCP::drug overdose"
"Post-bone related trauma, bilateral infiltrates and petechial rash (axilla, chest wall, conjunctiva) is suggestive of fat embolism::Diagnosis"
"Wound dehiscence is a post-operative complication of abdominal surgery that involves large amounts of pink, \salmon-coloured\\" peritoneal fluid soaking the dressings\""
"Evisceration is a catastrophic complication of wound dehiscence, where skin itself opens up and the abdominal contents rush out."
"What is the most likely cause of postpartum hemorrhage in a patient that presents with profuse vaginal bleeding with a soft, boggy, enlarged uterus on pelvic examination? Ultrasound reveals a thin endometrial stripe. Uterine atony"
"Symptoms of spinal compression immediately after pulling epidural catheter is suggestive of spinal epidural hematoma::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with elevated BUN and creatinine (< 20:1 ratio) after an episode of hypovolemic shock? There are pigmented granular casts and renal tubular epithelial cells on microscopy. Acute tubular necrosis"
"The DSM-5 criteria for schizophrenia include: A. At least two of the following symptoms (at least one must be 1, 2, or 3), each present for a significant portion of time during a one-month period: 1. Delusions 2. Hallucinations 3. Disorganized speech 4. Disorganized or catatonic behavior 5. Negative symptoms B. Significant impairment in social or occupational functioning C. Continuous signs of the disturbance persist for ≥ 6 months::duration *May include periods of prodromal or residual symptoms D./E. Not better explained by another mental disorder, medical condition, or substance F. If there is a history of autism spectrum disorder, diagnosis of schizophrenia is made only if prominent delusions or hallucinations"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postmenopausal woman with a painful, eczematous, pruritic rash on the nipple/areola refractory to corticosteroids? Mammary paget disease"
"Hyponatremia, low plasma osmolality (< 280) and low urine osmolality (< 250) is suggestive of psychogenic polydispia::diagnosis"
"Tenderness at the tibial tubercule is suggestive of osgood-schlatter::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with fever, hypotension 2/2 vomiting/diarrhea, and a macular rash involving the palms/soles? The patient's last menstrual period was 3 days ago. Staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome"
"Diabetes and microalbuminuria = add ACE-I::drug"
"Bilateral lower limb edema and hyperpigmentation at the medial malleolus = venous insufficiency ulcer::foot ulcer"
"What kind of ulcer is associated with hairless legs, scaly skin, and absent pulses located at the tips of the toes? Arterial insufficiency ulcer"
"Does cerebral palsy or spinal dysraphism usually present at birth? Spinal dysraphism"
"HSIL lesion on Pap. Next step? Immediate colposcopy or LEEP"
"Gout not responsive to celecoxib is managed with another NSAID (indomethacin)::next step"
"Unstable pericardial effusion is managed with pericardiocentesis::treatment Stable pericardial effusion is managed with pericardial window::treatment"
"Treatment of aortic dissection (type A) is open surgery"
"No active herpes lesions at delivery = vaginal delivery Active herpes lesions at delivery = C-section delivery"
"Which form of contraception offers significant protection against ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, iron-deficiency anemia, PID, and fibrocystic breast disease? Combined OCPs"
"What is postexposure prophylaxis for hepatitis B exposure? Unvaccinated / Incomplete Vaccination: Ig and full vaccine series Non-responder: 2 doses Ig Previous vaccination and known antibody response: none"
"Prevention of aspiration pneumonia may include raising the head of the bed"
"Pleural effusion and atelectasis result in decreased::decreased/increased breath sounds, decreased::increased/decreased tactile fremitus, and dullness::dullness/resonance to percussion"
"Likely ovarian cancer is managed with ex lap::next step"
"HELLP syndrome is a severe version of pre-eclampsia that includes: Hemolysis Elevated Liver enzymes Low Platelets::symptoms"
"Asymptomatic sliding hiatal hernia is managed with observation::next step"
"IFN-α can be used to treat which hepatitis infections? Hep B and C"
"What combined antiviral therapy is effective against most strains of hepatitis C (e.g. genotypes 1-6)? Sofosbuvir-velpatasvir"
"Hemorrhagic shock refractory to IVF is managed with transfusion::next step"
"Bone mets to the spine is managed with radiation therapy::treatment"
"Staph food poisoning (e.g. potato salad) is usually caused by inadequate refrigeration"
"Offer prisoners early parole if they help with research study = coercion of vulnerable population"
"Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy::intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy or acute fatty liver of pregnancy has ↑ bile acids and itchiness"
"RUQ pain, elevated LFTs, and hypoglycemia/thrombocytopenia in third trimester is suggestive of AFLP::diagnosis"
"What are the target 1-hour and 2-hour postprandial blood glucose levels in patients with gestational diabetes mellitus? < 140 and < 120 mg/dL, respectively"
"Gestational diabetes is managed with insulin::first-line pharmacological treatment"
"After instructing the laboring patient to breath and not push, management of shoulder dystocia includes flexing the hips toward the abdomen (McRoberts manuever) and application of suprapubic pressure"
"What's going on? Vitiligo"
"The main function of hCG during early pregnancy is to maintain the corpus luteum, which secretes progesterone to maintain pregnancy"
"Oligohydramnios is characterized by an amniotic fluid index ≤ 5 cm or a single deepest pocket ≤ 2 cm"
"Endometrial cells on Pap smear in women > 45 is managed with endometrial biopsy::next step"
"What are the following decelerations on contraction stress testing indicative of? Early: head compression Variable: cord compression Late: uteroplacental insufficiency"
"↑ Oxytocin levels can lead to late decelerations. Why? Uterine tachysystole → compression of blood flow to baby → hypoxia"
"Uterine tachysystole can cause fetal compromise (hypoxemia, acidemia) due to disruption of intervillous blood flow"
"Pregnancy and syphilis and PCN allergy is managed with penicillin (patients need to be desensitized)::treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with primary amenorrhea and the following physical exam: absent uterus/upper vagina with normal lower vagina, minimal pubic hair but present breast development Androgen insensitivity syndrome"
"A female-appearing child with virilization at puberty, bilateral undescended testes, and no breasts is suggestive of 5α-reductase deficiency::diagnosis"
"Female puberty occurs through the following stages: Breasts (Thelarche) at 8 years Axillary hair (Adrenarche) at 9 years Growth spurt at 10 years Menarche at 11 years"
"Which selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) is preferred for treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis (especially those with breast cancer risk)? Raloxifene"
"Endometriosis can lead to infertility because of disruption of pelvic anatomy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a 35-year-old woman that presents with infertility, irregular menses, and hot flashes? Primary ovarian insufficiency"
"Fragile X syndrome premutation carriers = increased::increased/decreased/no change risk of primary ovarian insufficiency"
"What is the next best step in working up a fetus with a nonreactive NST that did not react to vibroacoustic stimulation? Biophysical profile"
"Preeclampsia is defined as hypertension with proteinuria or end-organ dysfunction after the 20th week of gestation"
"Gestational hypertension or eclampsia diagnosis starts > 20 weeks"
"Unstable spontaneous abortion is managed with suction curettage::next step Stable spontaneous abortion is managed with expectant / medical management::next step"
"What type of pregnancy does twin-twin transfusion syndrome (TTTS) occur in? Mono::Mono/Di-chorionic"
"Di-chorionic twins: Lambda sign Mono-chorionic twins: T-sign"
"Monozygotic twins arise from 1 egg and 1 sperm, with time of cleavage determining # chorions and amnions: - Cleavage 0-4 days: Separate chorion and amnion - Cleavage 4-8 days: shared Chorion - Cleavage 8-12 days: shared Amnion - Cleavage 13+ days: shared Body (conjoined)"
"Which twin classification(s) is associated with umbilical cord entanglement as a complication? Monozygotic monochorionic monoamniotic"
"An initial measure to treat fetal hypoperfusion causing late decels is to move mom into the left lateral position"
"Painful bleeding, loss of contractions, loss of fetal station and palpable fetal parts with a history of C-section is suggestive of uterine rupture::diagnosis"
"External cephalic version can be attempted for breech presentations at ≥ 37 weeks gestation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman that experiences mood swings, fatigue, bloating, and hot flashes one week prior to menstruation? The symptoms resolve with menses. Premenstrual syndrome (PMS)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postmenopausal woman that presents with vaginal pruritus/dryness, dysuria/dyspareunia, and increased urinary frequency and urgency? Urinalysis is normal. Atrophic vaginitis (genitourinary syndrome of menopause)"
"Dysmenorrhea, dyspareunia, and dyschezia (chronic pelvic pain) is suggestive of endometriosis::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a post-menopausal woman that presents with chronic pelvic pain and a solid ovarian mass with thick septations and ascites on ultrasound? Epithelial ovarian carcinoma"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that is 6 hours postpartum that presents with inability to void, diffuse lower abdominal tenderness, and persistent urinary dribbling? Postpartum urinary retention"
"What is the recommended treatment for confirmed gonorrhea infection? azithromycin and ceftriaxone"
"Rocky mountain spotted fever = Rickettsia rickettsii::bacteria"
"For idiopathic intracranial hypertension: Before lumbar puncture, do a(n) MRI/MRV to rule out cerebral venous thrombosis"
"Right mid-to-upper quadrant or flank pain during pregnancy with peritoneal signs but without uterine tenderness= appendicitis::diagnosis"
"Urethral hypermobility or intrinsic sphincter deficiency = stress incontinence"
"Is weight gain an adverse effect associated with oral contraceptive pills? No"
"Do uterine fibroids cause breech presentation? Yes"
"Oligohydramnios = single deepest pocket < 2 cm or AFI < 5 cmPolydramnios = single deepest pocket > 8 cm or AFI > 24 cm"
"Unstable ectopic is managed with surgery::next step Stable ectopic is managed with methotrexate::next step"
"Postpartum endometritis is managed with clindamycin and gentamicin::treatment"
"Follow up abnormal first-trimester combined screen with quadruple screen F::T/F"
"Evaluation of atypical glandular cells on Pap test in women ≥ 35 includes colposcopy, endocervical curettage, and endometrial biopsy"
"Multiloculated adnexal mass and fever, leukocytosis, CA-125 = infection::infection/malignancy Multiloculated adnexal mass = malignancy::infection/malignancy"
"Uterine inversion is managed with manual replacement::physical treatment"
"Arrest of active 1st phase of labor is defined as no cervical changes after 4::#? hours of adequate contraction or 6::#? hours of any other contraction"
"Active phase of labor normally progresses > 1 cm every 2 hours"
"Palpable, tender mass in the anterior vaginal wall with postvoid dribbling, dysuria, and dyspareunia is suggestive of urethral diverticulum::diagnosis"
"Compared to normal, what changes detected by a neonatal quad screen would be indicative of trisomy 18 (Edward syndrome)? AFP: decreased Estriol: decreased hCG: decreased Inhibin A: decreased"
"↑ AFP = neural tube defects, abdominal wall defects, and multiple gestation"
"Acute fatty liver of pregnancy is managed with immediate delivery::next step"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman at 25 weeks gestation that presents after feeling no fetal movement for the past two days? Fetal heart sounds are not heard on Doppler. Transabdominal ultrasound"
"Which genital infection is characterized by extensive, painless ulcers without lymphadenopathy? Klebsiella granulomatis (granuloma inguinale)"
"Which genital infection is characterized by a single painless ulcer (chancre) often with painless bilateral lymphadenopathy? Treponema pallidum (primary syphilis)"
"Suspected ectopic and hcg < 1500 and (-) TVUS is managed with repeat hCG in 2 days::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman at 35 weeks gestation that presents with abdominal pain, painful vaginal bleeding and a firm, tender uterus? Abruptio placentae (placental abruption)"
"Age < 45 w/ abnormal uterine bleeding and failed OCPs is managed with endometrial biopsy::next step"
"Uterine procidentia is a form of pelvic organ prolapse in which the entire uterus herniates through the vagina"
"What kind of contraceptive has these mechanisms? 1. Thickens cervical mucus → impairs sperm penetration 2. Endometrial thinning → impairs implantation Locally acting progestins"
"What is the best screening test for gestational diabetes mellitus? 50-g 1-hour GCT"
"The most significant risk factors for vaginal squamous cell carcinoma are smoking and HPV infection"
"Hypertension in pregnancy is associated with preterm delivery::PPROM/preterm delivery"
"Maternal sensitization to a fetus' Rh+ blood may be reduced using Rh-immune globulin (Rhogam)::treatment"
"Müllerian agenesis is associated with renal::organ anomalies"
"What is the next step in management for a postmenopausal woman with an incidentally discovered ovarian cyst on ultrasound? Measure CA-125 levels"
"Late- and post-term pregnancies are commonly complicated by oligohydramnios::oligohydramnios/polyhydramnios"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant woman that presents with intense generalized pruritus, especially at night, and elevated aminotransferases? Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy"
"Painless second-trimester cervical dilation in the absence of labor is suggestive of cervical insufficiency::diagnosis"
"Age > 25 with CIN3 on coloposcopy is managed with ablate (conization, LEEP)::next step"
"Placenta accreta = c-section::delivery method"
"Risk factors for placenta accreta include history of cesarean delivery or dilation & curettage::surgery and advanced maternal age"
"Elevated DHEAS and normal testosterone = adrenal::ovarian/adrenal tumor Normal DHEAS and elevated testosterone = ovarian::ovarian/adrenal tumor"
"Twin pregnancies increase the risk for spontaneous preterm labor because of uterine crowding and overdistension"
"Newborn is withered, meconium stained, long-nailed, fragile, and has small associated placenta 1) Likely dx? 2) What is the greatest risk factor for this? 1) Fetal dysmaturity 2) Post-term birth"
"What is the recommended management for patients with PPROM at < 34 weeks gestation and signs of infection/fetal compromise? Antibiotics Corticosteroids Magnesium (if <32 weeks) Delivery"
"A(n) positive::positive/negative fetal fibronectin test prior to term is an indicator of high risk for preterm delivery"
"Empty gestational sac without a fetal pole with decreasing hCG levels at < 20 weeks is suggestive of missed abortion::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a postpartum patient on post-operative day 5 with a fever that is unreponsive to broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy with a negative infectious workup (blood/urine cultures, urinalysis)? Septic pelvic thrombophlebitis"
"Twin-twin transfusion syndrome = mono-chorionic Umbilical cord entanglement = mono-amniotic"
"Peri-anal \figure of 8\\" and white plaques = lichen sclerosus::lichen sclerosus/vulvovaginal atrophy\""
"Mammary Paget disease is typically associated with an underlying adenocarcinoma (e.g. DCIS) and therefore must be biopsed::next step"
"What level of proteinuria is required to make a diagnosis of preeclampsia? ≥ 300 mg/day (or a protein/creatinine ratio > 0.3)"
"Oxytocin toxicity leading to hyponatremia can cause seizures::what neuro symptom?"
"Postmenopausal bleeding = Pap smear::diagnostic test and TVUS/endometrial biopsy::diagnostic test"
"Obesity::State can cause increased aromatization of androgens to estrone leading to anovulation and abnormal uterine bleeding"
"Prior classical C-section Prior extensive uterine myomectomy Placenta previa Are indications for C-section at 37 weeks::delivery plan"
"Laboring patients at high risk of uterine rupture require urgent laparotomy and delivery"
"What is the most accurate measurement of gestational age? First trimester U/S with crown-rump length measurement"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young woman that presents with a soft, mobile, well-circumscribed mass at the base of the labia majora? Bartholin duct cyst"
"Contraindication to methylergonovine = HTN Contraindication to carboprost = asthma"
"Symmetric fetal growth restriction = due to infections / chromosomal abnormalities in the 1st trimester Asymmetric fetal growth restriction = due to uteroplacental insufficiency / malnutrition in the 2nd/3rd trimesters"
"What type(s) of fibroids are most associated with bulk-related symptoms and irregular uterine enlargement? Subserosal and pedunculated fibroids (leiomyomata)"
"White race and increasing age = ↑ risk of breast cancer"
"Loss of fetal station (0 to -3) is suggestive of uterine rupture::diagnosis"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients with septic abortion? Broad-spectrum antibiotics and suction curettage"
"Preterm labor refers to regular contractions causing cervical dilation and/or effacement at < 37 weeks gestation"
"What is the next step in diagnosis for a patient with secondary amenorrhea and a negative pregnancy test? Measure serum prolactin, TSH, and FSH"
"Mixed urinary incontinence is managed with voiding diary::next step"
"What is the first-line intervention for a woman in the first stage of labor with recurrent variable decelerations and moderate variability on fetal heart tracing? Maternal repositioning (e.g. left lateral decubitus)"
"Category III fetal heart tracing = intrauterine resuscitative intervention::initial step; if refractory do C-section"
"What is warrated in intra-amniotic infection with reassuring fetal heart tones? Induction of labor"
"Which genital infection is characterized by tender, small ulcers with an erythematous base and mild lymphadenopathy? Herpes simplex virus"
"Which genital infection is characterized by small, painless ulcers that can progress to painful inguinal lymphadenopathy (buboes)? Chlamydia trachomatis L1-L3 (lymphogranuloma venereum)"
"In patients with osteoporosis, the risk for fragility fracture is highest in those with a history of prior fragility fracture"
"Alcohol and smoking = ↑ risk of osteoporosis"
"Following suction curettage for a hydatidiform mole, β-hCG levels are measured weekly until undetectable and then monthly for 6 months"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with ovarian torsion? Urgent surgical detorsion and ovarian cystectomy"
"Fetal malposition (e.g. occiput transverse) contributes to cephalopelvic disproportion, the most common cause of second stage arrest of labor"
"Contractions generating >200 Montevideo units (MVUs) in a 10-minute interval are considered adequate"
"Digital cervical exam shows a taut, bulging bag without palpable fetal presenting parts is managed with transabdominal u/s::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis in this patient with vulvar itchiness, intermittent bleeding, and a unifocal, friable mass on the labia majora? Vulvar cancer"
"Adenomyosis is managed with hysterectomy::definitive treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a woman > 40 with new-onset heavy menstrual bleeding, dysmenorrhea, and a uniformly enlarged, boggy, tender, globular uterus? Adenomyosis"
"HSIL on Pap and pregnancy is managed with immediate colposcopy +/- biopsy (safe during pregnancy)::next step"
"Flu-like symptoms (fever, myalgias) and focal, unilateral breast pain with erythema is suggestive of lactational mastitis::diagnosis"
"Lichen sclerosis::Lichen sclerosis / Lichen simplex chronicus = ↑ risk of vulvar cancer"
"Granulosa::ovarian cell tumors = high levels of estradiol and inhibin"
"Struma ovarii is a cystic teratoma composed primarily of thyroid tissue and thus may cause hyperthyroidism"
"What are the three first-line drugs for maternal hypertensive crisis (> 160/110)? LabetololNifedipineHydralazine"
"How do the following laboratory values change during pregnancy? Total T3/T4: Increased Free T3/T4: Unchanged TSH: Decreased"
"Pregnant women with a history of genital HSV infection should receive prophylactic acyclovir or valacyclovir beginning at 36 weeks of pregnancy"
"All pregnant patients receive HSV prophylaxis beginning at 36 weeks of gestation F::T/F"
"PCOS = ↑ GnRH and ↑ estrogen levels"
"Maternal complications associated with placental abruption include DIC and hypovolemic shock"
"Which hormone affects respiration in pregnancy? Progesterone (increases tidal volume)"
"Postpartum thyroiditis is associated with anti-thyroid peroxidase antibodies"
"Young girl with thin, fused labia minora is due to labial adhesions"
"What is the next step in management for an afebrile woman that experiences relief of symptoms following aspiration of clear fluid from a simple breast cyst? Repeat breast examination in 2 - 4 months"
"Adolescents with irregular menstrual bleeding due to anovulatory cycles may benefit from progesterone therapy"
"Hormone replacement therapy is only indicated for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in women age < 60 who have undergone menopause within the past 10 years"
"Hormone replacement therapy (E+P) for vasomotor postmenopausal symptoms increases the risk for breast cancer"
"What is the recommended management for a woman with medically-managed hypothyroidism that desires to get pregnant in the near future? Increase levothyroxine dose at the time pregnancy is detected"
"What is the next step in management for an elderly woman that presents with bloody, malodorous discharge and an irregular vaginal lesion? Biopsy of the lesion"
"What is the next step in management for a premenopausal woman with a palpable adnexal mass on physical exam? Pelvic ultrasound"
"Raised, red granulation tissue on anterior vaginal wall with continuous watery vaginal discharge is suggestive of vesiculovaginal fistula::diagnosis"
"What are the most common causes of hyperandrogenism in pregnancy? Luteomas Theca luteum cysts::2"
"What is the preferred method of contraception for patients with breast cancer? Copper IUD"
"Lichen planus is managed with high dose steroids::treatment"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a stillborn fetus with multiple limb fractures and a hypoplastic thoracic cavity? Type II Osteogenesis Imperfecta"
"Diverticulitis = CT (oral/IV contrast)::diagnostic test"
"What is the gold standard confirmatory test for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia? Serotonin release assay"
"Patients with urinary frequency, nocturia, and hesitancy should undergo a(n) urinalysis::lab test to evaluate for hematuria (bladder cancer, stones) and infection"
"A(n) myelopathy refers to damage to the spinal cord"
"Older adult with gait dysfunction, LMN signs in the arms and UMN signs in the legs is suggestive of cervical myelopathy::diagnosis"
"The most common cause of cervical myelopathy in older adults is spondylosis"
"Pain at posterior::anterior/posterior edge of lateral or medial malleolus = get an x-ray to rule out fracture"
"What is the most likely cause of superficial unilateral hip pain of the upper lateral thigh in a middle-aged adult? Trochanteric bursitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with recent cataract surgery that presents with fever, decreased vision, and pain over the left eye for 12 hours? Physical examination reveals a swollen eyelid and exudates in the anterior chamber. Post-operative endophthalmitis"
"Patellar::Patellar/Quadriceps tendon tear = patella rides high Quadriceps::Patellar/Quadriceps tendon tear = patellar rides low"
"Pediatric patient after blunt abdominal trauma with epigastric pain and vomiting 24-36 hours after injury is suggestive of duodenal hematoma::diagnosis"
"Which type of skin cancer is most likely to arise from chronically wounded, scarred, or inflamed skin? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Kidney stone < 5 mm is managed with conservative (oral fluids/analgesia)::next step Kidney stone 6-10 mm is managed with alpha blocker::next step Kidney stone > 10 mm is managed with urology consult::next step"
"What imaging study is used to confirm the diagnosis of a colovesical fistula? Abdominal CT with oral or rectal contrast (not IV)"
"Arteriovenous fistula is a local vascular complication of cardiac catheterization characterized by a(n) continuous bruit and palpable thrill (with no mass)"
"Acute mediastinitis can occur following cardiac surgery (CABG) and presents with fever, chest pain, leukocytosis, and mediastinal widening on X-Ray"
"What knee injury presents acutely with \catching/locking\\" and reduced extension after twisting injury of the foot in a fixed position? Meniscal tear\""
"Unstable vital signs and AAA and no history is managed with U/S::imaging Unstable vital signs and AAA and known history is managed with Surgery::next step Stable vital signs and AAA is managed with CT::imaging"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops post-operative high fever, tachycardia, hypertension, and lid lag with no muscle rigidity? Serum creatine kinase is slightly elevated. Thyroid storm"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with suspected ventilator-associated pneumonia with a CXR demonstrating lobar infiltrate? Gram stain/culture of respiratory secretions"
"Malignant hyperthermia is treated with dantrolene::treatment"
"Right-heart failure following implantable pacemaker / cardioverter-defibrillator placement = tricuspid regurgitation::cause"
"Post-amputation focal tenderness with palpation weeks-months later = post-traumatic neuroma::post-traumatic neuroma/phantom limb pain Post-amputation intermittent cramping / burning felt in the distal amputated limb within 1 week = phantom limb pain::post-traumatic neuroma/phantom limb pain"
"Dehiscence is managed with binder / elective O.R.::next stepEvisceration is managed with warm saline dressings / immediate O.R.::next step"
"What is the typical empiric treatment for patients with human bite wounds? Amoxicillin-clavulanate"
"Aortic stenosis and > 1 of the following: 1) Symptomatic (syncope, angina, dyspnea) 2) LVEF < 50% 3) Undergoing other cardiac surgery Replace valve::next step"
"Embolization leading to acute mesenteric ischemia usually occurs in which artery? Superior mesenteric artery"
"What pathology classically presents with periumbilical abdominal pain out of proportion to PE findings? Acute mesenteric ischemia"
"Severe abdominal pain, n/v and diarrhea, fever, leukocytosis and atrial fibrillation is suggestive of acute mesenteric ischemia::diagnosis"
"Cor pulmonale refers to isolated right heart failure due to pulmonary cause (pulmonary hypertension, COPD)"
"Jugular Venous Pulses: tall A wave and tall V wave is seen in pulmonary hypertension::condition"
"Heels or balls of feet = diabetic ulcer Tips of toes / lateral malleolus = arterial ulcer Medial malleolus = venous ulcer"
"Ductal-dependent congenital heart diseases require PGE1 until surgery can be performed"
"For survival, hypoplastic left heart syndrome requires: ASD (or PFO)::defect PDA::defect"
"Mononucleosis may present with increased LFTs::lab value due to hepatitis and increased lymphocytes::WBCs"
"What is the likely underlying etiology in a patient with bronchiectasis predominantly in the upper lobe and sputum cultures positive for Pseudomonas aeruginosa? Cystic fibrosis"
"Thrombosis of graft vessels = hyperacute rejectiondense interstitial lymphocytic infiltrate with vasculitis of graft vessels = acute rejection fibrosis / arteriosclerosis / wall thickening and luminal narrowing = chronic rejection"
"Is echocardiography warranted in pericarditis? Yes"
"Low FEV1 means you shouldn't do a lobectomy. Why? You're not going to leave the person with enough lung"
"Divers who rapidly ascend can develop air emboli"
"Hypertensive urgency or emergency = 180/120::BP"
"Cervical cancer often presents as abnormal vaginal bleeding with cervical ulceration"
"Pelvic Trauma: 1) Blood at urethral meatus and high riding prostate → retrograde urethrogram::next step 2) If (1) is normal → retrograde cystogram::next step 3) If (2) shows intraperitoneal extravasation → ex-lap 4) If (2) shows extraperitoneal extravasation → foley"
"Erysipelas may be accompanied by lymphangitis, presenting as red streaks radiating along the course of lymphatic vessels"
"How does residual volume, FRC, and total lung capacity change with obstructive lung disease (e.g. COPD, asthma)? Increase"
"Obstructive lung disease = ↓↓::↑↓↔ FEV1, ↓::↑↓↔ FVC and  ↓::↑↓↔FEV1/FVC"
"Restrictive lung disease = ↓::↑↓↔ TLC and RV"
"Osteoarthritis::diagnosis"
"Erosions and periarticular osteopenia is suggestive of rheumatoid arthritis::diagnosis"
"Child with chronic (> 6 weeks) of arthritis symptoms (morning stiffness) and ↑ inflammatory markers = juvenile idiopathic arthritis::diagnosis"
"What eye pathology is associated with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA)? Uveitis"
"Local tenderness (\cord-like palpable structure\\")"
"Obesity hypoventilation syndrome is managed next with polysomnography::next step"
"Drooling, choking, and vomiting with the first feeding is suggestive of Esophageal atresia with TEF::diagnosis"
"Esophageal atresia is managed with insert NG tube::next step"
"The 3 dermatophytes are: 1. Trichophyton 2. Epidermophyton 3. Microsporum"
"A blighted ovum is also known as anembryonic pregnancy (gestational sac without an embryo)"
"Drooling and ulcers in the mouth in a child = drain cleaner::ingestion of what?"
"This formed after starting warfarin. What is it? Rectus sheath hematoma"
"All thyroid nodules > 2 cm should be evaluated with fine-needle aspiration (FNA)::test"
"Infants < 6 months should not use sunscreen, so they should first use protective clothing"
"Carpal tunnel syndrome step-up treatments? Splint → injection steroids → oral steroids → surgery::4"
"Small cell carcinoma is primarily treated with chemotherapy::chemotherapy/radiation"
"Is aspirin given before or after tPA for MI? Before"
"What kind of pneumococcal vaccine is given to HIV patients? 13 - 23"
"Woman on OCPs and HTN is managed with discontinue OCP::next step"
"If gonorrhea/chlamydia is suspected, then treat empirically::empirically/after culture comes back"
"What is the treatment for Syphilis? Penicillin G"
"Hyperventilation from panic attack and SOB/tingling/light-headedness is managed with breathe into paper bag::next step"
"What is the initial management for a patient with suspected acute limb ischemia? Anticoagulation (e.g. IV heparin)"
"Sepsis in sickle cell patient = ceftriaxone::antibiotic"
"Lidocaine and perioral numbness / tinnitus / metallic taste = systemic absorption::what happened"
"Chronic renal failure: ↓ HCO3- ↑ K+ ↓ Ca2+ ↑ Phosphate"
"For gestational diabetes, if behavioral modifications aren't working, then use insulin::therapy"
"Initial treatment of uncomplicated zoster is managed with oral acyclovir/valacyclovir/famciclovir::treatment"
"What is the procedure of choice to identify the site and attempt early therapeutic intervention for massive hemoptysis (> 600 mL/day)? Bronchoscopy"
"Patients should be placed with the bleeding::bleeding/non-bleeding lung in the dependent position"
"What is the initial treatment for acute hyponatremic encephalopathy (e.g. headache, nausea/vomiting, AMS)? Hypertonic (3%) saline"
"Aortic dissection can lead to pleural effusion::respiratory complication"
"Sharp, tearing chest / back pain = aortic dissection::PE/aortic dissection Pleuritic chest pain = PE::PE/aortic dissection"
"What is the most important predisposing risk factor associated with aortic dissection? Hypertension"
"Pleural effusion with green fluid after blunt trauma = esophageal perforation::cause"
"↑ Cholesterol or ↓ bile salts = ↑ risk of gallstones"
"Diabetic foot ulcers that reach the bone increase the likelihood of osteomyelitis::infection"
"What is the most common cause of osteomyelitis in both infants and children? Staphylococcus aureus"
"Femoral hernia is a type of gastrointestinal hernia that protrudes below the inguinal ligament through the femoral canal It is more::more/less likely to be strangulated, so it should be treated with elective surgery"
"Brown Recluse is a type of spider whose bite can cause necrotic ulcer and surrounding erythema"
"A(n) Black Widow spider::insect bite can cause muscle pain, abdominal pain, and pancreatitis"
"Nasopharyngeal carcinoma causes nasal congestion with epistaxis, headaches, and spread to the cervical lymph nodes"
"What agents may be used to rapidly reverse the effects of warfarin? Fresh frozen plasma (FFP) Prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC)::2"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient who recently emigrated from Mexico and presents with fever, RUQ pain, and bloody diarrhea with a subcapsular liver cyst visible on CT? Amoebiasis (liver abscess secondary to Entamoeba histolytica)"
"Pancreatic cancer = ultrasound::imaging for head tumors or CT scan::imaging for body/tail tumors"
"What syndrome is characterized by a triad of respiratory distress, neurologic dysfunction, and petechial rash? X-ray shows bilateral infiltrates. Fat embolism syndrome"
"CXR showing a nasogastric tube in the pulmonary cavity is diagnostic of diaphragmatic hernia"
"Signs of recurrent UTIs, painful ejaculation and transient improvement with antibiotics is suggestive of chronic bacterial prostatitis::diagnosis"
"Epididymitis presents with unilateral testicular pain, dysuria, fever/chills, and a scrotal mass; and is caused by E. coli in old people and STDs in young dudes"
"What acid-base disturbance is expected in patients with atelectasis? Respiratory alkalosis"
"What is the most common cause of esophageal perforation? Instrumental perforation (namely endoscopy)"
"What is the recommended imaging modality for a patient with back pain with neurologic deficits and signs of cauda equina syndrome (e.g. saddle anesthesia)? MRI"
"Empiric antibiotic therapy for acute bacterial prostatitis consists of TMP-SMX or a(n) fluoroquinolone for a duration of 6 weeks"
"Vital sign changes (tachy, hypertensive) and tremors and anxiety 2-4 days after surgery is suggestive of delirium tremens (DTs)::condition"
"Cholangiocarcinoma::cholangiocarcinoma/HCC may present with ↑ CEA/CA-19-9 levels"
"Necrotizing fasciitis is commonly caused by Strep pyogenes or Clostridium perfringens and treated with surgical debridement::procedure and broad-spectrum antibiotics"
"Testicular torsion commonly presents in adolescents with a sudden, swollen, high-riding and painful testicle and absent cremasteric reflex"
"What is the next step after an endoscopic biopsy is positive for gastric adenocarcinoma? CT scan of abdomen/pelvis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a firm, mobile nodule on the back (pictured below)? The nodule does not change shape when pinched at the edge. The patient had a similar bump in the same location months ago, which spontaneously resolved. Epidermal inclusion cyst"
"Penetrating trauma and hemodynamic instability / rebound tenderness / evisceration / blood from NG tube / rectum is managed with ex-lap::next step"
"Fever, focal back pain and neurologic findings with a history of infection or IVDU is suggestive of epidural abscess::diagnosis"
"What drug classes are useful for the management of anal fissures? (2) Topical anesthetics Vasodilators"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on a ventilator who develops hypotension, tachycardia, and unilateral absence of breath sounds? Pneumothorax"
"A ruptured ovarian cyst can lead to an acute abdomen due to hemoperitoneum"
"Sudden-onset unilateral lower abdominal pain after strenuous activity with pelvic free fluid is suggestive of ruptured ovarian cyst::diagnosis"
"Persistent pneumothorax and significant air leak following chest tube placement in a patient with blunt chest trauma suggests tracheobronchial rupture::what diagnosis?"
"Transplant patient has bloody diarrhea and multiple, large shallow ulcers on colonoscopy is suggestive of CMV colitis::diagnosis"
"Immediate post-surgical fever may be due to tissue trauma, mismatched blood products, or drug reactions"
"Cirrhotic with ↑ PT/PTT following low PO intake and antibiotic use = vitamin K deficiency::cause"
"A critically ill patient is found to have gallbladder wall thickening/distention and pericholecystic fluid without gallstones on imaging studies, what is likely the diagnosis? Acalculous cholecystitis"
"What nerve is responsible for flexion at the hip and extension at the knee? Femoral nerve"
"Intermittent solid food dysphagia and history of atopy is suggestive of eosinophilic esophagitis::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient that presents with marked weakness in the upper extremities compared to the lower following a motor vehicle accident? Central cord syndrome"
">20% BSA burn wound that changes color and oliguria/AMS is concerning for burn wound sepsis"
"What life-threatening complication may occur due to contiguous spread of a retropharyngeal abscess? Acute necrotizing mediastinitis"
"Post-trauma, widened mediastinum and left-sided hemothorax → tracheal deviation is suggestive of aortic rupture/injury::diagnosis"
"Post-traumatic myocardial rupture presents with cardiac tamponade"
"Metabolic syndrome, weight loss / ascites / hypoalbuminemia and palpable liver nodule is suggestive of HCC::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with the lesion below? Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Post-abdominal surgery and absent bowel sounds/flatus, X-ray shows dilated gas-filled loops with no transition point: Paralytic ileus"
"Recurrent RUQ/epigastric pain with ↑ AST/ALT/ALP without stones visualized and worsened with opioids is suggestive of sphincter of oddi dysfunction::diagnosis"
"What class of drugs may precipitate symptoms of sphincter of Oddi dysfunction? Opioid analgesics (e.g. morphine)"
"Patient presents with bilateral renal cell carcinoma, hemangioblastomas, angiomatosis, and pheochromocytoma: von Hippel-Lindau disease::diagnosis"
"ARPKD::renal condition has ↑ risk of hepatic fibrosis"
"What surgical procedure is preferred for biliary drainage for patients with acute cholangitis? ERCP w/ sphincterotomy"
"What is the treatment for umbilical hernias in children? Monitor for spontaneous resolution by age 5"
"Deep diabetic foot infections are commonly polymicrobial with secondary osteomyelitis due to contiguous::contiguous/hematogenous spread from the wound."
"What digestive enzyme may be elevated in patients with acute mesenteric ischemia? Amylase"
"What imaging modality should be used to evaluate a suspected urethral injury (e.g. patient with a penile fracture)? Retrograde urethrogram"
"Chest wall \clicking\\" with chest movement after cardiac surgery is suggestive of sternal dehiscence::diagnosis\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with fever, weight loss, an early diastolic murmur, and a left atrial mass on echocardiography? Cardiac myxoma"
"Vibrio vulnificus::Bacteria is found in contaminated water/shellfish and results in rapidly progressive necrotizing fascitis, bullous lesions, and septic shock, especially in those with liver disease"
"Subacute appendicitis (>5 days) is suggestive of appendiceal abscess::diagnosis"
"What is the initial management for hemodynamically stable patients with an appendiceal abscess? Conservative: IV hydration, antibiotics, and bowel rest"
"What head and neck infection is characterized by trismus, muffled voice, and deviation of the uvula on physical exam? Peritonsillar abscess (quinsy)"
"What is the emergency treatment of choice for acalculous cholecystitis in a critically ill patient? Antibiotics and percutaneous cholecystostomy"
"Superficial::Superficial/Deep dehiscence = intact rectus fascia and managed conservatively (e.g. regular dressing changes)"
"The source of candidemia is more likely due to intravascular catheter::intravascular catheter or oropharyngeal candidiasis"
"Pulmonary contusion::ARDS/Pulmonary contusion = patchy, irregular alveolar infiltrate occurring < 1 day after trauma ARDS::ARDS/Pulmonary contusion = bilateral, patchy alveolar infiltrate occurring 1-2 days after trauma"
"What BUN:creatinine ratio is indicative of prerenal acute kidney injury? > 20:1"
"Renal cell carcinoma is associated with paraneoplastic syndromes (e.g. ectopic EPO, ACTH, PTHrP, renin)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with pitting edema and leg pain that is worse in the evening accompanied by varicose veins and skin ulceration? Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI)"
"Why can people with chronic diarrhea develop uric acid stones? ↓ pH and ↓ urine volume aka Acidic and concentrated urine::2"
"What bacteria is the most common cause of acute bacterial parotitis? Staphylococcus aureus"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an athlete that felt a \popping sensation\\" while playing soccer"
"Japanese person with epigastric pain, weight loss and iron deficiency anemia is suggestive of gastric cancer::diagnosis"
"Post-resection of medullary thyroid carcinoma, calcitonin levels should be measured"
"What is shown here? Osteoarthritis::diagnosis"
"Perianal abscesses are caused by occlusion of anal crypt glands"
"Hemodynamically unstable patients with evidence of renal trauma should undergo IV pyelography::imaging prior to surgical evaluation"
"Evaluation of kidney injury in blunt genitourinary trauma should include urinalysis and CT of abdomen/pelvis::imaging in hemodynamically stable patients with evidence of microscopic hematuria"
"What is the recommended treatment for post-surgical DVT in a patient with ESRD? Unfractionated heparin followed by warfarin (for at least 3 months)"
"Central venous catheter placement should always be followed by a(n) X-ray::test"
"Autonomic dysreflexia is a complication of spinal cord injury above T6 whereby noxious stimuli can cause an unregulated sympathetic response leading to severe hypertension"
"After a hip fracture, surgery may be delayed up to 72 hours to evaluate for surgical risk/ensure medical stability"
"What imaging modality is recommended to evaluate patients with suspected gallstone pancreatitis? Ultrasound (RUQ)"
"Burn injury = LR::LR/NS"
"What type of bursitis is seen with repetitive kneeling? Prepatellar bursitis (\housemaid's knee\\")\""
"What are the most common peripheral artery aneurysms? Popliteal Femoral::#1 and #2 causes"
"Mucus plugging can lead to large volume atelectasis due to airway obstruction"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that develops acute posterior calf pain/swelling while walking? Physical examination shows tenderness/induration at the medial head of the gastrocnemius and a crescent-shaped patch of ecchymosis at the medial malleolus. Ruptured popliteal cyst"
"What type of surgical infection presents with intense pain in the wound, decreased sensitivity at wound-edges, cloudy-gray \dishwasher\\" discharge"
"What is the recommended treatment for symptomatic meningioma (e.g. headache, seizure, weakness, etc.)? Surgical resection"
"What is the best initial test in a patient found to have a cervical lymph node with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma? Panendoscopy (esophagoscopy, bronchoscopy, laryngoscopy)"
"Young man with low back pain and dyspnea/cough = testicular cancer::source of mets"
"Osteoporosis in a person who has celiac disease is due to malabsorption of vitamin D"
"Burn victims with oropharyngeal inflammation/blistering or carboxyhemoglobin levels > 10%::%? should be intubated to prevent upper airway obstruction by edema"
"What early abdominal aortic aneurysm repair complication results in progressive abdominal pain and bloody diarrhea? Bowel ischemia/infarction"
"Which tibial pathology presents with a point tenderness on palpation? Stress fracture::Shin splints/Stress fracture"
"Stress fracture = underweight individuals Shin splints = overweight individuals"
"How do humans typically contract an Echinococcus granulosus infection? Consumption of food or water contaminated with dog feces"
"Entamoeba histolytica::Entamoeba histolytica or Echinococcus = fever, bloody diarrhea, RUQ pain, smooth/cystic subcapsular mass"
"Blue-dot sign is seen in appendix testes torsion::diagnosis"
"Diverticulitis and abscess > 3 cm is managed with CT-guided percutaneous drainage::next step Diverticulitis and abscess < 3 cm is managed with IV antibiotics::next step"
"Uncomplicated diverticulitis = PO::PO/IV antibiotics"
"Post-surgery ↓ pH, ↑ pCO2, ↓ pO2 and bradypnea, bradycardia = delayed emergence from anesthesia::cause"
"What is the initial intervention for the management of stress fractures of the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th metatarsals? Rest and simple analgesics (e.g. acetaminophen)"
"Intraperitoneal bladder rupture describes rupture of dome::what part? of the bladder"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a cat bite after thorough wound cleaning? Amoxicillin and clavulanate (prophylaxis)"
"What is treatment for gallstone pancreatitis? Endoscopic retrograded cholangiopancretogrpahy (ERCP) and Early elective cholecystectomy to prevent further complication"
"Acute pancreatitis and ↑ AST/ALT/ALP = gallstones::source"
"Chronic pain on the sole of the foot that is worse with weight bearing (e.g. first thing in the morning) and dorsiflexion is suggestive of plantar fascitis::diagnosis"
"Tarsal tunnel syndrome::diagnosis"
"↑↑ Exercise, pain at the heel worse with activity and with firm palpation of sides of heel (above) is suggestive of Calcaneal stress fracture::diagnosis"
"Sternal wound drainage after CV surgery → chest imaging::next step"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with fever, sore throat, drooling, and muffled voice? The bilateral submandibular area is tender and indurated with palpable crepitus. Ludwig angina"
"What bacteria is the most frequent cause of nosocomial bloodstream infection in patients with intravascular devices (e.g. central line)? Coagulase-negative staphylococci (e.g. S. epidermidis)"
"Sialadenosis is a benign, non-inflammatory enlargement of the salivary glands associated with malnutrition and liver disease"
"Most common salivary gland neoplasm = pleomorphic adenoma::tumor, most commonly affecting the parotid gland"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with mild hypoxemia, tachypnea, and CXR infiltrates hours after an episode of aspiration? Aspiration pneumonitis"
"Alveolar hypoventilation = respiratory acidosis atelectasis = respiratory alkalosis"
"Struvite stone is managed with stone removal::next step"
"Persistent pain / swelling / chronic wound with sinus tract formation is suggestive of chronic osteomyelitis::diagnosis"
"What is the test of choice to diagnose pulmonary embolism in clinically stable patients with a high likelihood of PE (modified Wells > 4)? CT angiography"
"What is the preferred route of intubation in a cervical spine trauma patient without significant facial trauma? Orotracheal intubation"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that received multiple blood transfusions and develops paresthesias, carpal spasm, and hyperreflexia? Hypocalcemia"
"Testicular cancer is managed with radical inguinal orchiectomy::treatment"
"A nonhealing tonsillar ulcer in an older male smoker is suggestive of SCC::diagnosis"
"What type of urethral injury is typically caused by pelvic fractures in men? Posterior urethral injury::Anterior urethral injury/Posterior urethral injury"
"Blood at urethral meatus and high riding prostate → retrograde urethrogram::next step"
"straddle injury → blood at urethral meatus and scrotal hematoma = anterior urethral injury pelvic fracture → blood at urethral meatus and high-riding prostate = posterior urethral injury"
"Shock, acute onset chest pain and pulseless electrical activity 5 days post-MI with clear lungs is suggestive of ventricular free wall rupture::diagnosis"
"What is the next step in management for an older patient with a significant smoking history that presents with painful, pruritic red streaks on the arm, with a similar episode two weeks prior on the chest that self-resolved, and mild epigastric pain? Abdominal CT"
"Non-tender, distended gallbladder (Courvoisier sign) is suggestive of pancreatic head tumor::condition"
"Which type of testicular tumor secretes massive amounts of testosterone and estrogen, leading to precocious puberty and gynecomastia? Leydig cell tumor"
"Arterial ulcer"
"Pressure ulcer"
"Which trace mineral deficiency manifests as brittle hair, skin depigmentation, neurologic dysfunction, and sideroblastic anemia? Copper deficiency"
"Which trace mineral deficiency manifests as thyroid dysfunction and cardiomyopathy? Selenium deficiency"
"Testicular torsion::Epididymitis/Testicular torsion = pain worsens with testicular elevation Epididymitis::Epididymitis/Testicular torsion = pain relief with testicular elevation (Prehn sign)"
"Angiosarcoma is a lymphatic vascular malignancy associated with breast cancer survivors who received radiation and have chronic lymphedema after mastectomy"
"Which part of the mediastinum (anterior, middle, posterior) are bronchogenic cysts usually found? Middle mediastinum"
"Posterior testicular pain is suggestive of epididymitis::diagnosis"
"In the setting of hypovolemic shock, mechanical ventilation can cause an increase in intrathoracic pressure, cutting off venous inflow and causing a(n) decrease in right ventricular preload"
"What regions of the lung are most commonly involved in supine patients with aspiration pneumonia? Posterior segments of upper lobe and superior segments of lower lobe"
"Prolonged fever, cough with foul-smelling sputum and air-fluid levels on imaging is suggestive of lung abscess::diagnosis"
"Recent infection, subacute fever, abdominal/flank pain radiating to groin and pain with hip extension is suggestive of psoas abscess::diagnosis"
"Osteosarcoma in the elderly is generally associated with: Paget disease::MSK risk factor radiation::risk factor"
"Non-seminomatous::Seminomatous/Non-seminomatous germ cell tumors = elevated AFP and β-hCG Seminomatous germ cell tumors = only elevated β-hCG"
"What nerve is at significant risk for injury during parotid gland dissection? Facial nerve"
"Acute cholecystitis::diagnosis"
"What is the most common cause of small-bowel obstruction (SBO) in the U.S? Adhesions"
"Blunt abdominal trauma and anemia / hypotension + left-sided abdominal pain and referred pain to the shoulder = splenic::organ injury"
"Rupture of a perianal abscess with formation of a persistent sinus tract is suggestive of anorectal fistula::diagnosis"
"Post-prosthetic valve new murmur is suggestive of prosthetic valve dysfunction::diagnosis"
"MCL tear is caused by valgus::valgus/varus stress with medial knee tenderness"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with significant smoking history that presents with a hard, non-tender submandibular lymph node and occasional ear pain? Physical exam is otherwise unremarkable. Squamous cell carcinoma"
"Smoking history and cervical adenopathy + referred ear pain = SCC::source"
"How do you confirm a palpable breast mass? Biopsy"
"Humerus fracture and open fracture, displacement, or neurovascular compromise is managed with open reduction internal fixation (surgery)::treatment"
"Painless, bright red bleeding with a perianal mass is suggestive of hemorrhoid::diagnosis"
"Surgical intervention for hemorrhoids is indicated after conservative therapy (e.g. increased fluid/fiber, reduced fat/alcohol, topical therapy) fail"
"Refractory osteoarthritis is managed with surgery (total knee arthroplasty)::next step"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a new mole suspicious for melanoma? Excisional biopsy (with initial margins of 1-3 cm)"
"Smoker with persistent hoarseness and lesion on the vocal cord is suggestive of laryngeal SCC::diagnosis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with an adducted and internally rotated shoulder following an eclamptic seizure? Posterior shoulder dislocation"
"BPH predisposes to recurrent UTIs due to an elevated PVR"
"↓ Ca2+ and ↓ PTH is seen in primary hypoparathyroidism::condition"
"↓ [Ca], ↓ phosphate, ↑ PTH = vitamin D deficiency::vitamin D deficiency or chronic kidney disease → secondary hyperparathyroidism ↓ [Ca], ↑ phosphate, ↑ PTH = chronic kidney disease::vitamin D deficiency or chronic kidney disease → secondary hyperparathyroidism"
"How do the following laboratory values change in primary hyperparathyroidism? PTH: Increased Ca2+: Increased Phosphorus: Decreased"
"Low calcium intake = ↓ phosphate levels"
"↓ PTH and ↑ [Ca]: PTH-independent hypercalcemia (cancer, granulomatous, vit D intoxication)::cause"
"Fracture of  B (Lunate) → acute carpal tunnel syndrome"
"Zenker diverticulum occurs due to posterior herniation between the fibers of the cricopharyngeal muscle"
"Liver nodule and (+) FOBT / anemia = mets::cause"
"Asymptomatic and symptomatic mitral regurgitation and LVEF < 60% is managed with surgical valve repair::next step"
"History of CLL, acute left-sided abdominal pain and shock/anemia is suggestive of atraumatic splenic rupture::diagnosis?"
"What is the most common cause of osteomyelitis in the following populations: General: Staph aureus Penetrating: Pseudomonas Sickle cell: Staph aureus > Salmonella Diabetes mellitus: Polymicrobial (cover Pseudomonas) Oyster/Cirrhotic: Vibrio Vulnificus"
"What is the recommended treatment for a breastfeeding woman with a suspected breast abscess? Needle aspiration, antibiotics, and continued feeding"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an afebrile postpartum woman that presents with unilateral firmness and tenderness of the breast? Plugged duct"
"Reperfusion of a limb following arterio-occlusive ischemia for longer than 4-6 hours can lead to intracellular and interstitial edema with possible compartment syndrome"
"Pulselessness, pallor, and lack of swelling is more associated with acute limb ischemia::acute limb ischemia/compartment syndrome/DVT"
"Primary hyperparathyroidism and calcium > 1 mg/dL above normal is managed with surgery (parathyroidectomy)::Next step"
"What heart abnormalities are associated with Turner syndrome? Bicuspid aortic valve (most common) Coarctation of the aorta::2"
"Persistent fever, leukocytosis, and LUQ pain with a recent infection (endocarditis, cholecystitis) +/- tender splenomegaly is suggestive of splenic abscess::diagnosis"
"What is the management for emphysematous cholecystitis? Emergent cholecystectomy & broad-spectrum antibiotics with Clostridium coverage (piperacillin & tazobactam)"
"What type of cholecystitis arises due to infection of the gallbladder wall with gas-forming bacteria (e.g. Clostridium)? Emphysematous cholecystitis"
"Emphasematous cholecystitis is a life-threatening form of acute cholecystitis due to infection with gas-forming bacteria (Clostridium, E. coli)"
"Withdrawal from benzodiazepines::class of drugs is similar to alcohol withdrawal"
"Young man with obstructive-type voiding symptoms (weak stream, spraying, incomplete emptying) with elevated PVR is suggestive of urethral stricture::diagnosis"
"What trauma pathology occurs when > 3 continuous ribs are fractured in > 2 places? Flail chest"
"Which subtype of thyroid cancer is associated with psammoma bodies and \orphan annie-eye nuclei\\"? Papillary thyroid carcinoma\""
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with chronic constipation, LLQ abdominal pain, fever, and leukocytosis? Acute diverticulitis"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a significant smoking and drinking history that presents with a persistent white plaque that cannot be scraped off? Leukoplakia"
"Leukoplakia is managed with biopsy::next step"
"Extra::Intra/Extraperitoneal bladder injury is associated with pelvic fracture and manifests as localized pain, urinary retention, and gross hematuria"
"Hidradenitis suppurativa is caused by occlusion of folliculopilosebaceous units"
"Indirect inguinal hernias::indirect inguinal hernias or varicoceles are reducible with manipulation and feel like a soft-tissue mass"
"What testicular mass is a painless fluid-filled cyst at the head of the epididymis? Spermatocele"
"Hydroceles can::can/cannot be transilluminated"
"What cardiac complication is associated with succinylcholine in patients with skeletal muscle trauma? Cardiac arrhythmia"
"Succinylcholine is a depolarizing neuromuscular blocker by binding to post-synaptic ACh receptors, triggering an influx of Na+ and efflux of K+"
"What anesthetic is associated with adrenal insufficiency, especially in elderly and critically ill patients? Etomidate"
"Which IV anesthetic causes profound vasodilation (and thus hypotension)? Propofol"
"What nerve is most commonly damaged by fracture of the medial epicondyle of the humerus? Ulnar nerve"
"What nerve travels through Guyon's canal and which color is affected? Ulnar n.; red"
"\Soap bubble\\" lytic lesions at the epiphysis is suggestive of giant cell tumor::bone condition\""
"Popping noise after quick, twisting motion leading to lateral bulge in physical exam is suggestive of patellar dislocation::diagnosis"
"Tenderness at the inferior patella seen in athletes is suggestive of patellar tendonitis::diagnosis"
"What cardiac catheterization complication presents with sudden hemodynamic instability and ipsilateral flank/back pain? Retroperitoneal hematoma"
"Prostate cancer = age::greatest risk factor"
"What class of analgesics may contribute to prolonged post-operative ileus? Opiates"
"Enlarging neck fluid collection after thyroidectomy is most likely a(n) expanding neck hematoma::cause"
"What musculoskeletal pathology presents with subacute pain on abduction in patients who perform repetitive arm movement above shoulder height (e.g. painter)? Rotator cuff tendinopathy"
"(+) Neers test is suggestive of rotator cuff tendinopathy::diagnosis"
"In amputation injuries, amputated parts should be wrapped in saline-moistened gauze, sealed in a plastic bag, placed on ice and brought to the ED with the patient"
"Penetrating injury and → Surgery::next step"
"Aortic dissection and esophageal perforation both present with widened mediastinum::x-ray finding"
"The diagnosis of esophageal perforation is confirmed with Gastrografin (water-soluble) contrast::type esophagram or CT scan"
"What imaging modality is used to confirm the diagnosis of rotator cuff tear? MRI"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient that presents with right shoulder pain and weakness after falling on an outstretched hand? The pain/weakness is worst with abduction and external rotation of the humerus. Rotator cuff tear"
"What type of catheterization is recommended for patients with neurogenic bladder to reduce the risk of catheter-associated UTI? Clean intermittent catheterization"
"Thoracic aortic surgery can lead to anterior spinal cord::neurological syndrome"
"Prosthetic joint infections < 3 months = virulent::virulent/less-virulent organisms Prosthetic joint infections 3 -12 months = less-virulent::virulent/less-virulent organisms"
"What does the drop arm test test for? Rotator cuff tears (particularly the supraspinatus tendon)"
"A purple mass with itching/bleeding is suggestive of thrombosed external hemorrhoid::diagnosis"
"Epiglottitis and respiratory failure is managed with bag-valve mask ventilation with 100% oxygen → endotracheal intubation w/laryngoscope → cricothyrotomy::next step"
"What areas of the colon are most commonly effected by ischemic colitis? (2) Splenic flexure and rectosigmoid junction"
"A nonhealing tonsillar ulcer in the absence of smoking/alcohol is suggestive of head and neck SCC caused by HPV::diagnosis"
"Condition? Cardiac tamponade"
"Repeated vomiting, severe chest/back/epigastric pain, fever and left-sided pleural effusion is suggestive of esophageal perforation::diagnosis"
"↑↑ Hematocrit and ↓ EPO is suggestive of polycythemia vera::condition"
"Polycythemia and ↑ EPO and ↔ O2 saturation = malignancy::cause"
"Polycythemia and ↑ EPO and ↓ O2 saturation = hypoxia::cause"
"What post-gastrectomy complication presents with GI and vasomotor symptoms immediately after meals? Dumping syndrome"
"What is the initial step in management of dumping syndrome? Dietary modification"
"Dumping syndrome is a common post-gastrectomy complication due to rapid emptying of hyper-tonic gastric contents into the small intestine"
"Smoker with constant, progressive back pain worse at night/supine and weight loss is suggestive of pancreatic cancer (body/tail)::diagnosis"
"Dorsal penile fibrotic plaques and curvature is seen in Peyronie disease::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a diabetic patient with a severely deformed foot? X-ray shows bony destruction, decreased bone mass, osteophytes, and loss of joint spaces. Charcot joint (neurogenic arthropathy)"
"What is the most common source of liver metastases? Colorectal cancer"
"Cirrhotic with new-onset ascites, variceal bleeding is managed with abdominal ultrasound::next step?"
"Initial management of knee osteoarthritis may include exercises to strengthen the quadriceps muscle"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with acute renal failure and oliguria (< 250 mL/12 hours) with evidence of significant urine retention (e.g. suprapubic discomfort)? Bladder catheterization"
"Post-laparoscopic appendectomy fever, RUQ pain, leukocytosis is suggestive of subphrenic abscess::diagnosis"
"Solitary pulmonary nodule with irregular borders and > 0.8 cm in an old smoker is managed with surgical excision::next step"
"How does cardiogenic shock affect the following? PCWP: Increased Cardiac index: Decreased TPR: Increased MvO2: Decreased"
"Cardiogenic and hypovolemic shock = cold::warm/cold skin"
"Sepsis/anaphylaxis = warm::warm/cold skin"
"Patellofemoral pain syndrome is treated with stretching/strengthening the quadriceps/hip abductors, activity modification +/- NSAIDs"
"IVDU with symmetric, descending neurologic deficits, respiratory compromise, autonomic dysfunction +/- fever/leukocytosis is suggestive of wound botulism::diagnosis"
"Mobile, non-tender swelling at the wrist with (+) transillumination is suggestive of ganglion cyst::diagnosis"
"Meniscal tear and mild symptoms / older patients is managed with conservative::next step Meniscal tear and persistent symptoms / impaired activity is managed with MRI → surgery::next step"
"Aortoiliac occlusion (Leriche syndrome) is characterized by a triad of bilateral hip, thigh, and buttock claudication, impotence, and absent/diminished femoral pulses"
"Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic that often causes hyperprolactinemia::endocrine complication"
"Which atypical antipsychotic is a D2 partial agonist? Aripiprazole"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a teenage boy that presents after having an episode of unconsciousness followed by drowsiness and headache? The symptoms started and ended quickly. Physical exam is significant for a mild rash around the patient's mouth. Routine toxicology screen is negative. Inhalant abuse (e.g. glue, toluene)"
"Panic Disorder Treatments: Acute: Benzos Long-Term: SSRI/SNRI/CBT"
"Blockage of which dopamine pathway is responsible for extrapyramidal symptoms and NMS in patients taking antipsychotics? Nigrostriatal pathway"
"Aripiprazole and quetiapine are atypical antipyschotics that are the least likely to produce hyperprolactinemia"
"Clozapine::Atypical antipsychotic = ↓ suicide risk in schizophrenia"
"Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic that may cause agranulocytosis::hematologic abnormality"
"What is the first-line pharmacologic treatment for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)? SSRIs (i.e. sertraline)"
"What is the most likely complication to occur in a patient receiving total parenteral nutrition for one week? Bloodstream infection (bacterial or fungal)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a febrile, immunocompromised patient that develops an erythematous lesion that quickly progresses to a painless ulcer with a black center? Ecthyma gangrenosum"
"Viral peri-carditis may predispose patients to development of cardiac tamponade"
"Pulmonary edema is seen in dilated cardiomyopathy::dilated cardiomyopathy / cardiac tamponade"
"HSV::Bug encephalitis = EEG changes such as high amplitude slow waves and periodic discharges in the temporal +/- frontal lobes"
"Progressive exertional dyspnea and nonproductive cough +/- crackles is suggestive of interstitial lung disease::condition"
"Restrictive lung disease and low DLCO = interstitial lung disease (alveolar diffusion barrier problem)"
"Spinal stenosis = walking uphill::uphill/downhill helps"
"ACTH is a(n) polypeptide::polypeptide/steroid hormone"
"Skin hyperpigmentation and ↑ androgen implies ACTH-dependent Cushing's Syndrome"
"Protracted active stage of labor is < 1 cm every 2 hours and managed with oxytocin"
"What does CHADS-VASc stand for? C: Congestive heart failure H: Hypertension A: Age > 75 (2 points) D: Diabetes mellitus S: Stroke/TIA/thromboembolism (2 points) V: Vascular disease (MI, PAD, aortic plaque) A: Age 65-74 Sc: Female sex"
"Tuberculoid pleural effusion is characterized by very elevated (> 4 g/dL) protein, lymphocytic leukocytosis, glucose < 60, and high LDH."
"Chylothorax is differentiated from other causes of exudative pleural effusion by its milky-white color and elevated triglyceride levels"
"What is the recommended treatment for a patient with symptomatic SVC syndrome secondary to lung malignancy? Radiation therapy"
"Bullous pemphigoid / pemphigus vulgaris is managed with high potency steroids::treatment"
"Metastases to brain Lung > breast > melanoma > colon > kidney"
"↑ ESR/CK and bilateral proximal muscle weakness is suggestive of myositis::condition ↑ ESR/CRP and stiffness/pain in the shoulders, hip, and neck is suggestive of polymyalgia rheumatica::condition"
"Tension pneumothorax::diagnosis"
"All forms of poorly controlled maternal diabetes are associated with increased risk of fetal lung immaturity, preterm delivery, and macrosomia"
"Pre-gestational::gestational/pre-gestational diabetes mellitus = congenital defects"
"Lupus is commonly associated with serositis, which can manifest as pericarditis::heart and pleuritis::lung"
"Esophageal perforation is treated with IV fluids, antibiotics, and PPIs before heading to emergent surgery"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a young patient with hypertension that develops severe hypokalemia after beginning a low-dose thiazide diuretic (e.g. muscle weakness, leg cramps)? Primary hyperaldosteronism"
"Hypercalcemia of malignancy = ↓ PTH levels"
"Which type of hematuria, glomerular or non-glomerular, is associated with microscopic hematuria, proteinuria, and dysmorphic/casted RBCs? Glomerular hematuria"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with chronic kidney disease that develops bone pain? Renal osteodystrophy (due to secondary hyperparathyroidism)"
"Kegel exercises / pessaries / midurethral sling are used for stress urinary incontinence"
"Hepatic encephalopathy may be triggered by increased NH3 production or absorption (e.g. GI bleed)"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an elderly patient with conjugated hyperbilirubinemia, elevated alkaline phosphatase, and painless jaundice? Malignant biliary obstruction (pancreatic, biliary)"
"Hematemesis/diarrhea and shock and anion gap metabolic acidosis → hepatic necrosis / bowel obstruction = iron poisoning"
"Upper lobe cavitation is seen in 2° TB::condition"
"Pott's disease = TB infection of the vertebral bodies::location"
"What thyroid disorder is associated with atrial fibrillation (causing palpitations/dizziness)? Hyperthyroidism"
"Carotid sinus massage is used in which kind of arrhythmia? Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT)"
"Twisting injury of the knee = meniscal tear Blow to the lateral or medial knee = MCL/LCL tear"
"These manuevers diagnose meniscal tears"
"Athlete with medial knee pain and focal tenderness over anteromedial tibia, just below the joint line is suggestive of Pes anserinus pain syndrome (anserine bursitis)::diagnosis"
"Prognosis of astrocytoma is most affected by tumor grade::grade/stage"
"CD20 (+) symptomatic CLL = rituximab::drug"
"Hypovolemic hyponatremia can be divided into renal and non-renal causes"
"What is the most common cause of sepsis in patients with sickle cell disease despite vaccination? Streptococcus pneumoniae"
"Aortic stenosis::diagnosis"
"What is recommended treatment for a patient with severe pruritus secondary to advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma? Endoscopic CBD stent placement"
"Malignant pleural effusions are exudative::transudative/exudative"
"The sickled cells in sickle cell anemia get trapped in the capillaries, leading to hemolysis and microvascular occlusion"
"Pulmonary eosinophilia and productive cough is suggestive of Loeffler's syndrome::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with anemia, painful osteolytic lesions, hypercalcemia, and recurrent infections? Multiple myeloma"
"Fragile X Syndrome: CGG Repeats FMR-1 gene repression due to hypermethylation X-linked dominant inheritance MVP::cardiac abnormality Autism::behavioral disorder"
"Acutely psychotic patient who is dangerous to themselves/others → use pharm::next step"
"An adequate antidepressant trial is generally considered to be at least 4 - 6 weeks::duration at a therapeutic dosage"
"How do you treat lithium-induced hypothyroidism? Add T4"
"Compared to typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics are less::more/less likely to cause extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)"
"2nd-generation anti-psychotics with the lowest metabolic risk? Aripiprazole, Lurasidone, Ziprasidone::3"
"Acute lithium toxicity = GI side effects Chronic lithium toxicity = neurologic side effects"
"↑ Mitral stenosis severity = ↓::↑↓↔ gap between S2 and opening snap"
"Booming S1 is suggestive of mitral stenosis::condition"
"Hemothorax = dullness to percussion Pneumothorax = hyperresonance to percussion"
"Epididymitis::Testicular torsion/Epididymitis = testicular pain and discharge + UTI symptoms"
"Which type of nephrotic syndrome is seen in African Americans, obese individuals, HIV-positive individuals, and individuals who use heroin? Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS)"
"HBV/HCV = membranous nephropathy::nephropathy and membrano-proliferative glomerulonephritis::glomerulonephritis"
"Nephrotic syndrome and SLE is suggestive of membranous nephropathy::glomerular disease"
"Loop and thiazide diuretics can cause hyperuricemia, which may lead to precipitation of gout"
"Pancoast tumor often involves the ulnar nerve"
"How do the following laboratory values typically change in patients with osteomalacia? Calcium: decreased or normal Phosphate: decreased Alkaline phosphatase: increased"
"Vitamin D deficiency in adults leads to osteomalacia::condition"
"Bone minimal density (DEXA) ≤ -1.0 is osteopenia::condition"
"What murmur is best heard with the patient sitting up, leaning forward, and holding the breath in full expiration? Aortic regurgitation"
"What is the initial treatment for spinal epidural abscess with evidence of spinal cord compression? IV antibiotics +/- aspiration and surgical evaluation"
"How are the following diagnostic parameters affected in high-output congestive heart failure? Cardiac index: increased PCWP: increased Systemic vascular resistance: decreased"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with sinusitis/otalgia, lung nodules/cavitations, and elevated creatinine/hematuria? Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (formerly Wegener's)"
"Triad of: (1) necrotizing vasculitis of the skin (2) necrotizing granulomas in lower and upper airway (hemoptysis + sinusitis and otitis media) (3) necrotizing glomerulonephritis (kidney, RPGN) Wegener granulomatosis::vasculitis"
"Myelodysplastic syndromes result in pancytopenia, despite a normal hypercellular bone marrow"
"Which electrolyte disturbance causes prolonged PR interval, loss of the p wave, and wide QRS on ECG? High K+ (hyperkalemia)"
"Treatment can prevent most complications of Streptococcal Pharyngitis except for one. What it is? Post-Streptococcal Glomerulonephritis"
"What type of Strep. pyogenes infection precipitates post-streptococcal glomerulonephritis? Pharyngitis Impetigo"
"Which personality disorder may be associated with micropsychotic episodes, often in response to stress? Borderline personality disorder"
"Rapid lowering of glucose in DKA can lead to cerebral edema::neurological problem"
"The most common risk factor for PROM/PPROM is ascending infection (esp. BV)"
"What are the four complications of PPROM? Preterm labor Intraamniotic infection Placental abruption Umbilical cord prolapse"
"Post-thyroidectomy and radioactive iodine increase in thyroglobulin = recurrence of cancer::cause"
"Why is thyroid hormone replacement given post-resection of thyroid cancer? (-) feedback → ↓ TSH"
"First line maintenance (bipolar) is mood stabilizer (lithium or valproate) and 2nd-generation antipsychotic"
"What is the recommended maintenance treatment for a patient with a history of kidney disease that presents with bipolar I disorder? Valproate"
"What psychiatric disorder is characterized by the persistent and intense desire to be the opposite sex, which causes significant distress? Gender dysphoria"
"Depression and diabetic neuropathy is managed with SNRI::treatment"
"Valbenazine or deutetrabenazine is used to treat tardive dyskinesia::condition"
"Typical or first-generation antipsychotics treat psychosis by blocking dopamine (D2) receptors Atypical or second-generation antipsychotics block both dopamine (D2) and serotonin (2A) receptors"
"Patients with a single episode of major depressive disorder should continue antidepressants for an additional 6 months::time following the acute response to decrease risk of relapse"
"Teenager with active suicidal ideation - inform parents? Yes, and hospitalize regardless of parental consent"
"In patients with TCA overdose, a QRS duration > 100 msec is associated with increased risk of arrhythmias and/or seizures and is an indication for treatment with sodium bicarbonate"
"Are dopamine agonists or carbidopa-levodopa associated with a higher risk of psychosis? Dopamine agonists (pramipexole, ropinirole)"
"Excessive energy drinks can cause caffeine intoxication"
"Common early side effects of SSRIs::class of antidepressants include headache, nausea, insomnia/sedation, anxiety, and dizziness"
"What is the preferred test for the initial evaluation of pulmonary embolus in a pregnant woman? V/Q scan"
"What is the next step in management for a pregnant woman with a high pretest probability for PE and a low-probability V/Q scan? Additional testing (e.g. CTA)"
"Bladder training, mirabegron and oxybutynin is used to treat urge incontinence"
"CT angiography::angiography/aortography is used to diagnose aortic rupture"
"Triptan and ergot or another triptan = excessive vasoconstriction and HTN/MI/stroke"
"Migraine treatments: Abortive: sumatriptan, NSAIDs, antiemetics, ergots Prophylaxis: propranolol, topiramate, amitriptyline, valproate"
"Painless blurring of bilateral vision and halos around lights is suggestive of cataract::diagnosis"
"What is the likely cause of persistent mild thrombocytosis in a patient with a history of blunt abdominal trauma? Secondary thrombocytosis (due to splenectomy)"
"Dysuria, watery urethral discharge and sterile pyuria = urethritis due to Chlamydia trachomatis"
"Carvedilol, metoprolol succinate, and bisoprolol = survival benefit for HF and LVEF < 40%"
"What tocolytic agent is associated with flushing, headache, and tachycardia as possible side effects? Nifedipine (dihydropyridine CCB)"
"Tocolytic at < 32 weeks = indomethacin::drug Tocolytic at 32-34 weeks = nifedipine::drug"
"Central cyanosis (e.g. lips, mucous membranes) = low arterial oxygen saturation::cause Peripheral cyanosis (e.g. distal extremities) =increased oxygen extraction::cause"
"Fibrates are the most effective drugs for decreasing serum triglycerides"
"Most effective intervention for slowing diabetic nephropathy = HTN control"
"Ulnar nerve can be compressed at the medial epicondyle (direct pressure) cubital tunnel (repetitive flexion of elbow) guyon canal (bikers)"
"Which β-blocker is associated with QT interval prolongation? Sotalol (class III antiarrhythmic)"
"Hypocalcemia Hypokalemia Hypomagnesemia causes prolongation of the QT interval"
"What is the likely diagnosis? Nail pitting and onycholysis are most closely associated with? Psoriasis"
"What disorder may be diagnosed using the pathergy test? Behçet syndrome"
"Chronic watery diarrhea with normal macroscopic appearance of bowel is suggestive of microscopic colitis::diagnosis"
"Thickened subepithelial collagen band or monocytic (lymphocytic) infiltrate is suggestive of microscopic colitis::diagnosis"
"Horizontal lie of testicle = testicular torsion Vertical lie of testicle = epididymitis"
"New baby and toddler is being mean to baby is managed with mom spending more time with toddler::next step"
"Sonohysterography (saline-infusion ultrasound) is used for detecting submucosal fibroids, the most common type to cause abnormal bleeding / pregnancy loss"
"Phimosis::Phimosis/Paraphimosis refers to a tight foreskin that cannot be retracted over the glans penis Paraphimosis refers a retracted and entrapped foreskin of an uncircumcised male"
"Infection of the glans due to poor hygiene (erythema, discharge, ulcerated lesions on glans) is most likely balanitis::condition"
"Sigmoid volvulus is associated with the \coffee bean\\" sign on X-ray\""
"Bronchioloalveolar carcinoma of the lung is peripherally located"
"Indirect inguinal hernia = internal (deep) and superficial ring Direct inguinal hernia = superficial ring only"
"What type of hernia is caused by a patent processus vaginalis? Indirect inguinal"
"Severe COPD may present with pulmonary cachexia, characterized by loss of lean muscle mass due to energy imbalance and systemic inflammation."
"Painless occlusion of meibomian gland is suggestive of chalazion::diagnosis"
"Painful bacterial staph infection of eyelash follicle or meibomian gland is suggestive of Hordeolum::diagnosis"
"Estimated fetal weight < 10% with normal umbilical artery doppler / interval growth is suggestive of fetal constitutional smallness::diagnosis"
"Serosanguineous drainage and incisional pain is suggestive of incisional hematoma::diagnosis"
"Can female sexual interest/arousal disorder occur in post-menopausal women? Yes"
"Urinary catheters should be discontinued within 1-2 days post-operatively"
"Cortisol-secreting adrenal adenoma = ↓ DHEAS levels"
"Cherry-red spots on macula may be due to: Tay-Sachs (ganglioside accumulation) Niemann-Pick (sphingomyelin accumulation) Central retinal artery occlusion"
"Drug of choice for anticoagulation during pregnancy (DVT): Heparin"
"What is the diagnostic test of choice for Ogilvie syndrome (colonic pseudo-obstruction)? Abdominal CT scan"
"P. vivax and ovale are species of plasmodium that produce dormant hypnozoites (latent form)"
"Which species of Plasmodium produce the most severe infection? P. falciparum"
"In pregnancy, the following vaccines are contraindicated: HPV::vaccine MMR(V) Live influenza Varicella"
"Red, friable lesions on the vagina in a person with choriocarcinoma is due to metastases::cause"
"In mechanically ventilated patients, plateau pressure is equal to the sum of elastic pressure and PEEP"
"Progressive dyspnea on exertion, lower extremity edema and S3 in late pregnancy is managed with echo::next step"
"Criteria for extubation readiness includes: - pH > 7.25 - Adequate oxygenation on minimal support (FiO2 < 40 and PEEP < 5) - Intact inspiratory effort and mental alertness to protect airway"
"Pregnancy and suspected appendicitis but (-) ultrasound findings is managed with MRI::next step"
"Cervicitis affects the endocervical glands::anatomical structure"
"Can ITP antibodies cross the placenta? Yes, and lead to thrombocytopenia"
"Lactose intolerance is characterized by a positive hydrogen breath test"
"Dorsally-hooded foreskin = hypospadias::cause"
"GBS (+) and non-anaphylatic PCN allergy = cefazolin::intrapartum prophylaxis"
"Large amount of intraabdominal fluid after gyn surgery and watery vaginal discharge = unilateral ureteral laceration::cause"
"A short interpregnancy interval predisposes to: - Maternal anemia - Preterm labor/PPROM → low birth weight"
"When should cryptorchidism be surgically corrected with orchiopexy? By 1 year"
"Cystic fibrosis has very similar respiratory tract features as what other disease? Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (dec. mucociliary clearance)"
"Acute pancreatitis causes epigastric pain radiating to the back that is relieved::relieved/worsened by leaning forward"
"Adenoid hypertrophy is hyperplasia of the pharyngeal tonsils and is the most common cause of nasal obstruction in children"
"What is the next step in management for a patient at 33 weeks gestation that presents with contractions and a positive fetal fibronectin test? Administer corticosteroids"
"Fever, flank pain, and bilateral diffuse crackles in pregnancy is suggestive of pyelonephritis c/b ARDS::diagnosis"
"What is the most common dermal manifestation of antiphospholipid syndrome? Livedo reticularis"
"Hypoparathyroidism can lead to calcifications in the basal ganglia::brain structure"
"Postpartum hemorrhage with failure of placenta to deliver within 30 minutes of delivery = retained products of conception::cause"
"What chemotherapeutic agent(s) are associated with heart failure with myocyte necrosis and fibrosis? Anthracyclines (e.g. doxorubicin, daunorubicin)"
"Constant leaning on elbows → painless swelling is suggestive of olecranon bursitis::diagnosis"
"Hypovolemic shock 2/2 hemorrhage and blood at urethral meatus - which one to fix first? Shock: with IVF → blood transfusion"
"Secondary disease prevention = Screen early to prevent disability (mammogram, pap smear) Primary disease prevention = prevent disease before it occurs (vaccination) Tertiary disease prevention = treatment to maximize remaining function Quaternary disease prevention = prevent overtreatment"
"What type of disease prevention is screening for disease? Secondary"
"Patients lost to follow up is a type of selection bias"
"High pre-test probability and negative test = ↓ NPV"
"What type of study has a population as the unit of analysis (rather than individual)? Ecological study"
"Aside from skin cancer, the highest incidence cancers are: Breast / prostate cancer::cancer Lung cancer::cancer Colorectal cancer::cancer"
"The most deadly cancers are: Lung cancer::cancer Prostate/breast cancer::cancer Colorectal cancer::cancer"
"Which predictive value below is influenced by prevalence? PPV/NPV (Predictive values)"
"If a physician suspects child abuse, what is the first action that should be taken? Contact child protective services (CPS)"
"Pregnant women can::can/cannot refuse treatment even if baby's health is impacted"
"Situations where parental consent is NOT required (3) Sex, Drugs, Rock n Roll"
"For spousal abuse, ensure the patient has a(n) safe place to go during emergency"
"Competency is determined by a(n) judge::judge/doctor"
"What is the order of priority of surrogates?  Spouse > adult children > parents > siblings > other relatives > friend"
"Do you have to keep someone who is brain dead on life support? No"
"At what age will a child have: Two-legs (walking) Two-words (1 other word besides papa/mama) Two-of-us (separation anxiety) Tracking (object permanence) 12 months"
"At what age will a child be able to: Pull (to sit up) Pincer grasp (thumb and first finger) Papa/Mama Play 9 months"
"At what age will a child be able to: 3-wheeled tricycle 3 word sentences Draw Circle Brush teeth 3 years old"
"All STIs are::are/are not reportable diseases to the health department"
"Do most states allow a minor to have an abortion without parental consent? No"
"Organize these \rules\\" from first to last • Best-interest standard. • Talk to the patient directly. • Subjective standard. • Substituted judgment. \""
"What are the four exceptions to informed consent? "
"If you're unsure if someone is competent, do we assume that he/she is competent? Yes"
"Can a medical diagnosis strip someone of competence? No"
"Patient is brain dead but family still wants treatment. Treat? No"
"Anyone < 18 years old = assume incompetence::competence/incompetence"
"Exceptions for getting parental consent Married, self supporting (e.g. employed), or in the military::Three common examples for a legally emancipated minor Sex (contraceptives, STIs, pregnancy) drugs (substance abuse), rock & roll (emergency/trauma)::Three common examples for a partially (medically) emancipated minor"
"Exception to patient confidentiality = \threat of harm\\"\""
"What kind of gifts are acceptable? Small ones"
"Once someone is your patient, can you abandon them? No - wedding vows!"
"What is the good samaritan law? Protect from legal liability in non-medical settings"
"Severe TB, patient refuses treatment: 1) Treat? No 2) Quarantine? Yes"
"Patient has organ donor card and family says \no\\" after they die"
"A 17-year-old girl is pregnant and requests an abortion - parental notification is::is/is not required"
"Subjects over/under report exposure history due to perceived social stigma = reporting bias"
"Exposures that happen long before disease assessment may cause the study to miss diseased patients who die earlier = neyman bias"
"The exposed group undergoes increased monitoring leading to increased probability of identifying a disease = surveillance bias"
"How does septic shock affect the following? PCWP: normal or decreased Cardiac index, early: increased SVR: decreased MvO2: increased"
"Ventricullar fibrillation is managed with defibrillation::next step"
"Chronic PPI = decreased::increased/decreased B12 levels"
"Soft, mobile, non-tender subareolar mass is suggestive of galactocele::diagnosis"
"When and where does a galactocele present? After cessation of breastfeeding; subareolar"
"2-10 days after lap chole, patient develops fever, n/v, cholestatic picture without biliary dilation is suggestive of bile leak::diagnosis"
"Preload in high-output cardiac failure? High"
"What microscopy finding is characteristic of Candida? pseudohyphae +/- budding yeast"
"How are dermatophytes visualized? Branching septate hyphae on KOH"
"What viral TORCH infection can present with microcephaly, ventriculomegaly and periventricular calcifications in the brain? CMV"
"NSAIDs should not be used for treatment of gout in patients taking anticoagulants (e.g. aspirin, clopidogrel, apixaban) or who have renal insufficiency"
"What subtype of rosacea may present with dry eyes / burning sensation? Ocular rosacea"
"Post-operative pulmonary complications may be reduced with pre-operative physical therapy"
"Which immunodeficiency is associated with albinism and peripheral neuropathy? Chédiak-Higashi syndrome"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with prosthetic mitral valve that presents with shortness of breath and bibasilar crackles? Her INR is 1.5. Prosthetic valve thrombosis (~ mitral stenosis)"
"What is the likely cause of dyspnea in patients with ankylosing spondylitis? Limited chest and spinal mobility"
"What retinal pathology is associated with AV nicking, copper/silver wiring, and/or flame hemorrhages on funduscopy? Hypertensive retinopathy"
"CHF + EF < 35% = add automated implantable cardioverter defribrillator (AICD)::device or biventricular pacemaker"
"Aortic stenosis = ↓::↓/↑ pulse pressure Aortic regurgitation = ↑::↓/↑ pulse pressure"
"Aortic stenosis with valve area > 1 cm and normal pulse pressure and anginal symptoms = CAD::cause of angina"
"Reversible bronchoconstriction and inflammation of distal bronchioles is characteristic of asthma::condition"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with abdominal pain and hematemesis following recent use of alcohol, aspirin, and cocaine? Acute erosive gastropathy"
"CHF and pleural effusion is managed with trial of diuretics::next step"
"Hyperkalemia and ACE-I / spironolactone and mild elevation of creatinine = side effect of meds::cause of hyperkalemia"
"Pregnant Pt with elevated AFP. Next step? Fetal ultrasound"
"Does fat embolism or alcohol withdrawal present with hypoxia? Fat embolism"
"What is the likely cause of hypocalcemia in a patient who has steatorrhea? Vitamin D deficiency"
"What is the likely underlying cause of syncope in an elderly patient that stood up after a period of bed rest? Orthostatic hypotension"
"Cellular cresents in Bowman capsule Rapidly progressive crescentic glomerulonephritis"
"Upper extremity thrombosis triggered by extreme activity of the arms (jackhammer) is suggestive of paget-schroetter disease::diagnosis"
"Thoracic Outlet Syndrome is a brachial plexus lesion that involves compression of the lower trunk and subclavian vessels"
"Dyspnea, tachycardia, hypoxemia and non-productive cough in a woman taking OCPs is suggestive of PE::diagnosis"
"Stable small bowel obstruction treatment includes IV fluids and NG intubation for decompression"
"Unstable pneumothorax or hemothorax is managed with needle / thoracostomy (chest tube)::next step"
"Trauma and decreased breath sounds in the left lung base and greenish fluid from chest tube = diaphragmatic rupture::cause"
"What class of antidepressants may help IBS? Tricyclics"
"Consolidation of the lung results in increased::increased/decreased breath sounds, increased::increased/decreased tactile fremitus, and dullness::dullness/hyperresonance to percussion (e.g. lobar pneumonia)"
"The SA and AV nodes are usually supplied by the right coronary artery"
"Inferior MI and hypotension and distended neck veins = right ventricular::location infarction"
"Wide fixed split = ASD::ASD/PS Wide splitting increased during inspiration = PS::ASD/PS"
"Theophylline use is limited due to its narrow therapeutic index"
"Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth = reversible::reversible/irreversible ↓ D-xylose urine levels"
"Chronic venous insufficiency = duplex venous ultrasound::diagnostic test"
"Pulmonary arterial hypertension = ↓ DLCO and ↔ TLC and ↔ FEV1/FVC"
"Aortic stenosis::heart sounds"
"Mild aortic regurgitation::heart sounds"
"Mitral regurgitation::heart sounds Apex (Supine; Bell):"
"Mitral stenosis (with opening snap)::heart sounds Apex (Left Decubitus; Bell):"
"Carvallo Sign: inspiration::inspiration/expiration = ↑ venous return (↑ right::right/left sided heart sounds)"
"PDA::heart sounds"
"Mid-systolic click (MVP)::heart sounds Apex (Supine; Bell):"
"An earlier::earlier/later snap in mitral stenosis signifies more severe disease"
"Apex (Left Decubitus; Bell): Identify: S4 Gallop"
"Apex (Left Decubitus; Bell): Identify: S3 Gallop"
"S3/S4 = Heard at the apex::apex/base of the heart Use the left lateral decubitus position Use the bell::bell/diaphgram"
"What are the \5 H's and 5 T's\\" of ACLS? H'sT'sHypothermiaToxinsHypovolemiaTamponadeHypoxiaTension pneumothoraxHydrogen ion [acidosis]ThrombosisHypo/hyperkalemiaTrauma\""
"What is the most likely diagnosis and a postpartum patient who develops shock with minimal bleeding, a palpable uterus, and a purple vaginal mass? Vaginal hematoma"
"What is the temporary treatment for open pneumothorax? Partially occlusive dressing"
"Basal cell carcinoma is more common on upper lip"
"Squamous cell carcinoma is more common on the lower lip"
"If tumor thickness > 1 mm (Breslow stage ≥ II): perform sentinel lymph node biopsy"
"What is the safety margin for Breslow stage II? 1-2 cm"
"What is surgical treatment for skin cancer of the face? Mohs surgery"
"A differential time to positivity greater than 2 hours::time? indicates that the source of the bloodstream infection is most likely a(n) central::peripheral/central line"
"Why is an abdominal x-ray not useful to confirm the diagnosis of diverticulitis? It may fail to demonstrate the presence of colonic diverticula and the expected bowel wall thickening"
"What complications can an abdominal x-ray help identify in diverticulitis? (4) Abscesses, obstructions, ileus, and perforation (pneumoperitoneum)"
"Cirrhosis etiologies: V: Viral W: Wilsons H: Hemochromatosis A: Alpha-1 Anti-trypsin deficiency P: Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis P: Primary Biliary Cirrhosis E: Ethanol N: NASH/NAFLD S: Something Rare"
"Primary biliary cirrhosis::PBC/PSC causes fibrosis of intrahepatic::intrahepatic/extrahepatic/both bile ducts"
"Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis::PBC/PSC causes fibrosis of both::intrahepatic/extrahepatic/both bile ducts"
"What lab value can you screen Primary Biliary Cirrhosis? AMA"
"A(n) epidural blood patch is indicated for severe or refractory post-lumbar puncture headaches from CSF leak syndrome"
"What is the best test to diagnose hereditary hemochromatosis? Genetic testing::Genetic testing/Liver biopsy"
"The most common organism responsible for early-onset prosthetic joint infection (< 3 months of placement) is S. aureus"
"Hypersplenism due to portal hypertension can cause what hematological effect? Thrombocytopenia"
"What causes thrombocytopenia in cirrhosis? Hypersplenism"
"What is a neurological consequence of testicular torsion? Absent cremaster reflex"
"In patients on total parenteral nutrition or prolonged fasting, the normal stimulus for CCK release and gallbladder contraction is absent causing gallbladder stasis"
"What is the first-line treatment for peripheral facial nerve palsy? Steroid therapy (high-dose prednisone)"
"If pt has a rise in PSA w/o sxs or mets, what is the treatment? Anti-androgens"
"Which diseases of childhood can cause avascular necrosis? (2) Slipped capital femoral epiphysis (SCFE) Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease"
"What is the most common hip disorder in adolescence? Slipped Capital Femoral Epiphysis (SCFE)"
"What are the three treatment options available for retinal artery occlusion? Eyeball massage Carbogen therapy Surgical therapy"
"What are the treatment options for closed glaucoma? α-agonist β-blocker Laser surgery::3"
"What sign of glaucoma is shown below? Optic disc cupping"
"Atropine can cause::cause/treat acute-angle closure glaucoma"
"What is the more common type of macular degeneration? Dry (>80%)::Dry/Wet"
"What condition is shown by the funduscopic picture shown below? Macular Degeneration"
"What is the treatment for Wet Macular Degeneration? Anti-VEGF"
"What is the treatment for Dry Macular Degeneration? None"
"Wet::Dry/Wet Macular degeneration can develop more rapidly"
"What is a pharmacological cause of cataracts? Long-term corticosteroid use"
"Retinal vein occlusion causes a(n) \blood and thunder\\" appearance on funduscopy\""
"What condition is shown by the funduscopic picture shown below? Retinal detachment"
"What are common causes of postoperative arrhythmia following cardiac and noncardiac surgery? High levels of catecholamines Electrolyte imbalances Reduced ventilation Certain drugs (e.g. thiazides)::4"
"Most pituitary adenomas that produce ACTH are microadenomas (< 10 mm in diameter)::microadenomas/macroadenomas"
"What about rifaximin use can make potential surgery for liver transplant more challenging? May cause abdominal distention"
"Fulminant liver failure is a rare and devastating complication of acute hepatitis B::A/B/C/D/E infection with a mortality rate > 80%"
"Extracorporeal blood rewarming may be used to manage individuals with severe hypothermia (core body temperature < 28°C [82°F])"
"Pt presents with hypothermia and frostbite, which do you treat first? Hypothermia"
"Rigid bracing (of the hip in abduction) is an appropriate treatment for children < 6 months::< 6 months/6-18 months/> 18 months with developmental dysplasia of the hip"
"The genu varum deformity (bow legs) is normal in children ≤ 2 years::how many years old?"
"In a patient on mechanical ventilation, it is recommended to use the lowest FiO2 that maintains the oxygen saturation above 90%."
"Increasing the tidal volume increases the alveolar ventilation and helps decrease PaCO2"
"Fluoroquinolones increase collagen degradation::mechanism and are associated with adverse effects, including Achilles tendon rupture, retinal detachment, and aortic aneurysm rupture"
"All patients with severe, ongoing hematemesis and altered mental status should be intubated for airway protection"
"Endotracheal intubation decreases the risk of aspiration and can also facilitate upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and placement of a(n) balloon tamponade for patients with uncontrollable hemorrhage"
"Unlike hepatic adenomas, focal nodular hyperplasia lesions are generally stable and are rarely complicated by spontaneous rupture and hemorrhage"
"How is focal nodular hyperplasia described on ultrasonography? Central, stellate scar with a \spoke-like pattern\\"\""
"Typical presentation of aldosteronoma? (4) Hypertension Hypokalemia Metabolic alkalosis Mild hypernatremia"
"Typical presentation of pheochromocytoma? Episodic hypertension, recurrent episodes of headaches, diaphoresis, and palpitations::4"
"If patient has burns surrounding the eyes, ophthalmic antibiotics are first-line treatment"
"For deep partial-thickness burns (i.e. 2nd-degree burns), when is silver sulfadiazine cream not indicated? If burns are periorbital"
"A patient with a history of recent ciprofloxacin::abx? treatment and watery diarrhea, should raise suspicion of pseudomembranous colitis"
"What is the most severe complication of pseudomembranous colitis? Toxic megacolon"
"What is the treatment for sigmoid volvulus w/o peritonitis? Rigid/flexible sigmoidoscopic detorsion of the volvulus"
"Initial resuscitation for sigmoid volvulus, includes IV fluids, NPO, and what third treatment? Placement of a NG tube"
"A dilated transverse colon and cut-off sign at the splenic flexure can be seen in acute pancreatitis"
"Stones ≥ 10 mm are unlikely to pass and may warrant lithotripsy"
"At what time of day is plantar fasciitis the worst? In the morning"
"Plantar fasciitis is characterized by heel pain"
"What are the two best predictors of postoperative outcomes following lung resection surgery? FEV1 DLCO"
"Post-trauma sensorineural hearing loss and vertigo worsened by sneezing = perilymphatic (endolymphatic) fistula"
"How does eustachian tube dysfunction::pathology present? Ear popping, cracking, hearing loss in response to pressure changes, ear fullness"
"How does postconcussive syndrome present? Headache, confusion, difficulty concentrating, mood alterations, and sleep disturbances"
"What is performed in the initial evaluation of thyroid nodules in patients with subnormal TSH levels? Thyroid scintigraphy"
"What is the test of choice to evaluate dysphagia? Upper endoscopy"
"Esophageal dysphagia to both solids and liquids indicates a(n) motilitly disorder"
"Patients with hypo::hypo/hyperthyroidism are at increased risk for carpal tunnel syndrome"
"Acute renal infarcation is accompaned by hypertension::hypertension/hypotension"
"Is vision affected in conjunctivitis? No"
"Which inflammatory ocular condition is associated with systemic inflammatory diseases? Uveitis"
"In Crohn's disease, fatty acid absorption is often compromised resulting in its binding to free calcium in the lumen of the GI tract"
"Wound ulceration is more common in which spider bite? Brown recluse::Brown recluse/Black widow"
"Are serum amylase and lipase helpful in diagnosing pancreatitic malignancy? No!"
"How long until ARDS usually evolves in a patient after the inciting event? 6-72 hrs"
"Peritoneal stretch receptors sense the increase in intraabdominal pressure and respond by triggering increased vagal tone"
"Most patients with acute, uncomplicated low back pain experience spontaneous resolution of their symptoms in the first few weeks"
"What lab value is checked during a suspected IBD flare-up? Fecal calprotectin"
"What is the initial steps in the management of irritable bowel syndrome? (2) Loperamide Low FODMAP"
"Liver metastases are often clinically silent unless pressure on the liver capsule or obstruction of the biliary tree causes pain or jaundice"
"Focal nodular hyperplasia is associated with anomalous arteries in the liver"
"Why does hypertension ocur in ADPKD? Cyst expansion → localized renal ischemia → increased renin release"
"Does diagnosis of epidural hematomas require LOC followed by a lucid interval? No!"
"How are pancreaticopleural fistulas managed? Bowel rest (to promote fistual closure by avoiding pancreatic stimulation)"
"Which lab value is classically elevated in polymyalgia rheumatica? ↑ ESR"
"What is the next step in management in a patient with DKA? Normal saline and IV regular insulin infusion"
"What is the ultrasound description of a mature cystic teratoma? Partially calcified mass (e.g. teeth) w/ multiple thin, echogenic bands (e.g. hair)"
"Mature cystic teratomas are common causes of premenopausal adnexal masses and have an elevated risk of torsion due to their heterogenous composition"
"A Salter-Harris type III is characterized by fracture of the distal tibial epiphysis and lateral physis"
"Medroxyprogesterone::Drug? side effects may be similar to pregnancy symptoms"
"What should patients in preterm labor at <32 weeks receive? (3) Tocolytic agent Corticosteroids Magnesium sulfate"
"What is the urine sediment finding in prerenal AKI? Unremarkable"
"What is one of the main risk factors for rectal prolapse? Multiparity"
"How would an induced rectal prolapse be described? Erythematous mass with concentric rings extending through the anus"
"What are the risk factors for necrotizing enterocolitis? Prematurity VLBW Reduced mesenteric perfusion (hypotension, CHD) Enteral feeding (formula > breast milk)"
"Simple pneumothorax: Breath sounds: ↓::↓↑ Percussion: Hyperresonant::Dull/Hyperresonant Fremitus: ↓::↓↑"
"Testes that have not descended by 6 months::age? are unlikely to descend and require surgical intervention"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with a history of prostate cancer that presents with severe back pain, decreased lower extremity DTRs, and urinary retention? Epidural spinal cord compression"
"What is the initial step in management for a patient with suspected epidural spinal cord compression? IV glucocorticoids"
"Analgesics and baclofen are used for muscle spasm"
"What are the most common causes of referred otalgia? Dental disease Temporomandibular joint disease::2"
"What is one possible adverse effect of fluid resuscitation in a patient presenting with blunt head trauma? Increases the rate of epidural hematoma expansion"
"Blunt thoracic trauma can cause a sudden increase in intraesophageal pressure"
"How is iliotibial band syndrome commonly presented and in what population? Poorly localized lateral knee pain, inexperienced runners starting a new or more strenuous training regimen"
"Where is tenderness located in patients w/ iliotibial band syndrome? Lateral femoral epicondyle"
"How does patellofemoral pain syndrome present and in what population? Anterior knee pain in physically active women"
"What are two common pediatric fractures? Greenstick fracture Torus fracture"
"Burn wound sepsis can develop rapidly and is associated with some or all of the following systemic findings: Temperature (<97.7 F or >102.2 F) Tachycardia Tachypnea Refractory hypotension"
"The metabolic rate drastically increases after a large surface area burn due to the release of inflammatory mediators"
"After a high cervical spine injury, patients are at risk for immediate diaphragmatic paralysis"
"Incisional hernias occur due to fascial closure breakdown"
"Rectus abdominis diastasis is a bulge between the rectus muscles due to linea alba weakening"
"Ventilator-associated pneumonia is generally caused by what? Aspiration"
"What are the recommendations to reduce the risk of ventilator-associated pneumonia for intubated patients? (3) Elevate head of bed at 30-45 degrees Suction of subglottic secretions Minimize patient transport Limited use of gastric acid inhibitors"
"Paraesophageal hiatal hernias occur when the gastric fundus migrates into the thoracic cavity"
"How do patients with hyperthyroidism get hypercalcemia? Bone turnover via increased T3 stimulation"
"Atelectasis is usually managed/prevented with incentive spirometry"
"Immediate postsurgical fever occurs within hours of the operation and can be due to what causes? Tissue trauma Mismatched blood products Malignant hyperthermia::3"
"Which pancreatic cysts are at high risk for malignancy? Large size (> 3cm) Solid components or calcifications Main pancreatic duct involvement Thickened or irregular cyst wall"
"Persistent tachycardia and new arrhythmia after blunt chest trauma are concerning for blunt cardiac injury"
"What is the best next step in management of a patient with blunt cardiac injury? (2) Continuous cardiac monitoring (24-48 hours) Transesophageal echocardiography"
"How do macula densa cells respond to high NaCl delivery? Signal afferent arteriole to constrict"
"Insulin therapy::Insulin therapy/Sulfonylurea therapy can administered to decrease long-term morbidity associated with chronic pancreatitis"
"For work-up of an ovarian mass, what is the most appropriate next step in diagnosis? Pelvic US"
"Crepitus, subcutaneous emphysema, “persistent air leak despite chest tube placement” = tracheobronchial injury::most likely diagnosis?"
"What are the two possible mechanisms for febrile nonhemolytic transfusion reactions? Accumulation of cytokines or type II HSR with host antibodies against donor HLA/WBCs"
"Postoperatively, what are two outcomes from a water challenge test of 500 mL of normal saline? If the patient can urinate and post void volume is normal than pt is dehydrated If no urine is produced then its acute renal failure"
"Where is referred pain for acute cholecystitis? Right shoulder/scapula"
"Hypopyon is an inflammatory infiltrate in the anterior chamber of the eye"
"In the absence of an obvious wound, open globe laceration may be inferred by a peaked or teardrop pupil"
"What medication can facilitate passage of a distal ureteral stone? Tamsulosin::Tamsulosin/Bethanechol/Furosemide"
"Bethanechol is a cholinergic agent used to treat urinary retention or atonic bladder"
"Oxybutynin is an anticholinergic agent that is used to treat a(n) overactive bladder (detrusor instability)"
"What is the ddx for malignant biliary obstruction? (4) Cholangiocarcinoma Pancreatic carcinoma HCC Metastasis"
"Why is needle thoracostomy performed before intubation in tension pneumothorax? Positive-pressure ventilation rapidly increases accumulated air and intrathoracic pressure → exacerbates TP → cardiovascular collapse"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with diverticulosis, pneumaturia, fecaluria, and frequent UTI? Colovesical fistula"
"In a cirrhotic patient with ascites that presents with acute cholecystitis, what is the most appropriate next step in preoperative management? Abdominal paracentesis"
"What are the risk factors for mesenteric ischemia? (3) Atherosclerosis Embolic source Hypercoagulable disorders"
"When are systemic corticosteroids indicated in UC? Treatment of active flare"
"Radionuclide scans may be done for thyroid nodules in the setting of a(n) low TSH (hyperthyroid) level"
"AV fistula: Preload: Increased::Increased/Decreased Afterload: Decreased::Increased/Decreased CO: Increased::Increased/Decreased"
"Why is the risk of UTIs increased with BPH? Periurethral prostatic enlargement impinges the urethra and prevents complete evacuation of the bladder"
"Acalculous cholecystitis is likely due to cholestasis and gallbladder ischemia leading to secondary infection by enteric organisms"
"Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa are responsible for most deep infections following puncture wounds"
"What is associated with increased surgical site infection and poor wound healing? Smoking!"
"Pleural effusions occur in almost half of patients who undergo coronary artery bypass graft surgery"
"Post-cardiac surgery effusions can be managed conservatively with observation only when what criteria are met? (3) Small-to-moderate in size/not enlarging Early onset (postop day 1 or 2) Not associated w/ respiratory sxs"
"Acute arterial occlusion can result from what three major causes? Embolus form a cardiac or arterial source Arterial thrombosis Iatrogenic/direct blunt trauma to the artery"
"Fractures of the distal third of the clavicle may require open reduction and internal fixation to prevent nonunion"
"How are uncomplicated fractures of the middle third of the clavicle treated? (3) Rest & ice Sling Figure of eight bandage"
"What are \hard signs\\" of arterial injury? (4) Distal limb ischemia Absent distal pulses Active hemorrhage/rapidly expanding hematoma Bruit or thrill at site of injury\""
"What are the \soft signs\\" of traumatic arterial injury? (5) Diminshed distal pulses Unexplained hypotension Stable hematoma Hemorrhage (at time of injury) FND\""
"What is the classic pain sequence associated with diverticular perforation? Sudden, severe pain (perf) → temporary relief (decompression) → generalized, constant pain (peritonitis)"
"What are the leading causes of lymphangitis? (2) Streptococcus pyogenes MSSA"
"Diagnosis of a(n) primary spontaneous pneumothorax is seen as a visceral pleural line on chest-xray"
"Critical illness polyneuropathy is a complication of sepsis characterized by axonal injury of the peripheral nerves resulting in hyporeflexia::hyporeflexia/hyperreflexia"
"Small bowel obstruction (SBO) due to fibrotic stricture typically presents with bilious vomiting"
"Adynamic ileus occurs when small bowel motility is disrupted and only develops after exposure to an insult that \stuns\\" the bowel"
"How can actinic keratoses be treated? Destruction in situ with cryotherapy Topical fluorouracil::2"
"Which antispasmodics are used to treat irritable bowel syndrome? Hyoscyamine Dicyclomine"
"Adhesions are the most common cause of mechanical bowel obstruction::MBO/ileus"
"What electrolyte changes result from the massive insulin surge in refeeding syndrome? Hypophosphatemia, hypokalemia, and hypomagnesemia"
"When does hypermetabolic syndrome typically occur? (3) Severe burns Sepsis Hyperthyroidism"
"After initial stabilization, burn patients who require aggressive fluid resuscitation should undergo urethral catheterization ASAP"
"Intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in young patients is commonly due to arteriovenous malformation, which may also present with recurrent headache, seizure, or focal neurologic deficits"
"Lemierre's syndrome refers to infectious thrombophlebitis of the internal jugular vein and most often develops as a complication of a bacterial sore throat infection in young, otherwise healthy adults"
"What is the management of patients with suspected venous air embolism? (2) Immediately place in left lateral decubitus position High-flow O2"
"What position reduces atelectasis in the posterior lung (where most of the lung mass is located)? Prone"
"What positioning may lower the risk of ventilator-acquired pneumonia? Semirecumbent"
"What position should patients with suspected arterial air embolism be placed? Supine"
"How does alveolar edema appear on CT scan in the setting of a pulmonary contusion? Ground-glass opacities in the lung adjacent to the affected chest wall"
"Where is the tenderness located in Osgood-Schlatter disease? Tibial tubercle"
"Why can a reddish hue sometimes be seen behind the tympanic membrane in otosclerosis? Excessive bony resorption can expose underlying blood vessels"
"What paradoxically improves with otosclerosis? Speech discrimination in noisy environments"
"How are Parkinson's disease patients prone to aspiration of oropharyngeal anaerobic bacteria? Swallowing dysfunction"
"What is the reason for continuous irrigation of the eye following a chemical burn? Normalization of pH"
"All patients with cognitive impairment must be evaluated for hypothyroidism, as this is a treatable and reversible condition"
"Synthetic cathinones, also known as “bath salts”, are recreational drugs that are similar to amphetamines"
"Synthetic cathinone intoxication typically causes manifestations of sympathetic stimulation and markedly altered mental status"
"Contrary to opioid intoxication, respiratory depression::symptom is usually only mild in benzodiazepine overdose along with an absence of pupil constriction::constriction/dilation"
"Undetected hearing loss in children can cause speech, language, or social delay and can easily be mistaken for a neurodevelopmental or communication disorder"
"Psychotic symptoms in Parkinson disease can be treated with anti-Parkinson medication dose reduction and/or the addition of a low-potency antipsychotic::two ways"
"Depression = ↑ secretion of cortisol::hormone"
"Persistent complex bereavement disorder (also referred to as complicated grief) is characterized by intense yearning for the deceased that persist >12 months::time after the loss for at least 6 months to a year::time"
"Psychogenic dyspareunia vs genitopelvic pain disorder? PD = pain during sexual intercourse that is not due to an underlying organic cause GPD = persistent or recurrent difficulties during sexual intercourse"
"Bipolar II is defined by presence of hypomanic AND depressive episode::definition"
"What does a diagnosis of bipolar I require? Presence of at least 1 manic episode"
"What is required for diagnosis of Lewy body dementia in contrast to dementia secondary to Parkinson disease? Cognitive and motor symptom onset <1 year apart"
"In contrast to general anxiety disorder, patients with somatic disorder have anxiety that specifically revolves around their somatic symptoms with the fear that they have a serious medical illness::what defines somatic disorder?"
"Patients with generalized anxiety disorder frequently come to their PCP with somatic symptoms"
"Difference in presentation of physical symptoms between somatic symptom disorder and panic disorder? Somatic symptom disorder → physical symptoms persist over time Panic disorder → acute symptoms and do not persist between panic attacks"
"What is an ocular side effect of PCP intoxication? Nystagmus"
"Premenstrual dysphoric disorder is characterized by prominent mood swings, irritability, changes in appetite, and physical discomfort that decrease/resolve after menstruation"
"Standard workup of new-onset psychosis includes obtaining a urine toxicology screen"
"Nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramping, diarrhea, and muscle aches characterizes which common withdrawal syndrome? Opioid withdrawal"
"Benzodiazepine withdrawal is characterized by delirium F::T/F"
"Any patient who reports feeling hopeless, even if the initial symptoms are somatic, should be asked about suicidal ideation"
"Electroconvulsive therapy is often preferred to achieve a rapid response in depressed elderly patients who are unable to eat and drink, psychotic, or actively suicidal::three indications"
"What steps are most likely to reduce the risk of long-term prescription opioid misuse? (3) Review state's prescription drug-monitoring program data Random urine drug screens Regular follow-up visits"
"Depression and associated anxiety may be prodromal features in more than one-third of patients with pancreatic cancer"
"When major depression fails to respond to an initial SSRI, patients can be switched to what other first-line antidepressants? Different SSRI SNRI Bupropion Mirtazapine Serotonin modulators (e.g. vilazodone)::5"
"Citalopram::Specific SSRI is generally avoided in patients with a recent MI due to its potential for dose-dependent QT prolongation"
"What muscular symptom is associated with serotonin syndrome? Hyperreflexia and myoclonus"
"What are the pharmacological options for Tourette's syndrome? Antipsychotics Tetrabenazine Alpha-2-agonists (e.g. guanfacine, clonidine)::3"
"Major depression disorder has an atypical presentation with physical symptoms (e.g. headache) in the elderly"
"TCAs are contraindicated in the elderly due to its anticholinergic and antihistamine effects"
"Switching from most antidepressants to a MAOI requires a(n) 2-week washout while switching to fluoxetine requires a(n) 5-week washout"
"For patients with adjustment disorder, the following medications can be given if present: - depressed mode = SSRIs - anxiety/panic attacks = benzodiazepines - insomnia = benzodiazepines or other hypnotic agents (e.g. zolpidem)"
"A core feature of atypical depression is mood reactivity"
"Antipsychotics may lower the seizure threshold and must be used with caution in patients who have seizure disorders"
"Short-term benzodiazepine treatment is appropriate for patients with acute onset of severe insomnia and anxiety"
"Difference in features between Wernicke's encephalopathy and Korsakoff syndrome? Wernicke's → ataxia, confusion, ocular abnormalities (nystagmus, gaze palsies) Korsakoff → impaired recent memory, anterograde amnesia, compensatory confabulation"
"What is the classic symptom observed in caffeine withdrawal? Headache"
"Conjunctival injection (red eyes) classicaly characterizes intoxication of what substance? Marijuana"
"Which personality disorder characterizes individuals who have no desire for close relationships? Schizoid"
"Breathing-related disorders are the most common of the hypersomnias and include obstructive sleep apnea and central sleep apnea"
"What is the criteria for long-term maintenance antidepressant therapy? Patients with ≥ 2 major depressive episodes"
"Cocaine withdrawal produces post-intoxication depression (\crash\\")\""
"Dhat syndrome is a culture-bound syndrome of South Asia that manifests with psychological and somatic symptoms that are attributed to loss of semen"
"Which dementia subtype has early changes in personality and behavior? Frontotemporal dementia::Frontotemporal dementia/Lew body dementia"
"Young children with PTSD, whose memories may not be fully consolidated, often have nightmares that are not specific to any trauma, as well as repetitive traumatic themes in play and often struggle with emotional regulation (e.g. easily upset/anger)"
"Effective brief interventions for alcohol abuse require a(n) understanding of the patient's level of awareness of the problem and readiness to change"
"What are three complications in catatonia and what are the treatments/evaluations for each? Malnourishment → Albumin DVT → LMWH Rhabdo → check CK"
"The onset of ADHD is before age 12"
"How long does acute stress disorder last? Between 3 days and 1 month"
"In contrast to panic disorder, panic attacks in specific phobia are always triggered by the phobic stimulus and do not::do/do not occur unexpectedly"
"Disulfiram is an aversive agent that can be used only in abstinent patients and would not be preferred in patients who are actively drinking"
"Patient with acute psychosis and escalating agitation, olanzapine would be the next step in management because it can be administered IM and has a rapid onset of action"
"What MMSE score is widely used as the cutoff for diagnosis of delirium or dementia? ≤23"
"Between ages 6-11 (concrete operational stage), kids begin to understand that death is irreversible"
"Intrauterine growth restriction is a risk factor for neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS) F::T/F"
"How early can sickle cell pain crises occur, and why do they occur at that time? 6 months; production of defective HbA increases (i.e. primary fetal hemoglobin decreases)"
"Achalasia causes progressive dysphagia T::T/F"
"What is the most common bacterial infection in febrile infants? UTIs"
"What are the risk factors for idiopathic intracranial hypertension? Female gender Tetracyclines Obesity vitamin A excess Danazol"
"Hemiplegic migraines are most common in adolescents::what age group? and present with headache, visual aura, and a self-resolving hemiplegia"
"Most children aren't able to tie shoelaces until around age 5"
"At what age do individuals require three doses of the HPV vaccine? ≥15 yo"
"Unilateral, purulent rhinorrhea in a young child is often due to a(n) retained intranasal foreign body"
"What are two important risk factors for respiratory distress syndrome? Prematurity Maternal diabetes mellitus"
"What is the most common gastrointestinal congenital anomaly? Meckel diverticulum"
"Intrabdominal testicular torsion should be suspected in a patient with cryptorchidism and an acute abdomen"
"When does pyloric stenosis typically present? 3-6 weeks"
"What is the pathophysiology of transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN)? Delayed clearance of fetal lung fluid"
"What is the clinical presentation of transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN)? Term neonate delivered by caesarian with grunting/respiratory distress"
"What is seen on x-ray for transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN)? Hyperexpanded, wet lungs (lungs filled with fluid)"
"What is the treatment of transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN)? Oxygen if needed, occasionally PPV (CPAP)"
"What is the difference in x-rays between transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) vs. respiratory distress syndrome (RDS)? TTN → wet & hyperexpanded lungs RDS → granular & underexpanded lungs"
"What is the clinical presentation of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS)? Premature neonate delivered because of perinatal distress with grunting/respiratory distress"
"What is seen on X-ray for respiratory distress syndrome (RDS)? Hypoextended lungs, atelectasis; granular/ground-glass density"
"What is the main complication of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS)? Persistent oxygen requirement → bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD)"
"Premature neonate with low lung volumes and granular/ground-glass pattern on chest X-ray? Respiratory distress syndrome::Diagnosis?"
"Premature neonate with perinatal distress; grunting/respiratory distress: Respiratory distress syndrome::Diagnosis?"
"What is the treatment for neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (NRDS)? (2) Ventilation via CPAP/PEEP ET admin of artificial surfactant If respiratory insuffiencey persits, intubation may be needed"
"What is the pathophysiology of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS)? Prematurity → underdeveloped lungs → inadequate surfactant → alveoli fail to open (\derecruitment\\") → poor oxygenation\""
"Inappropriately sized neonate with jitteriness and tremors? Hypoglycemia (<40-45 mg/dL)::Diagnosis?"
"What must be ruled out on follow-up with neontal hypoglycemia? Sepsis"
"What is the treatment of neonatal hypoglycemia? - Asymptomatic → oral feeds - Symptomatic → IV bolus 2 mL/kg of D10W - Persistent → IV infusion of D5 or D10W"
"What is the diagnosis for neontal hypoglycemia? Glucose <40 mg/dL"
"What is the clinical presentation of neontal hypoglycemia? (6) - (may be asymptomatic) - poor feeding- jitteriness - tremors - seizures - lethargy"
"What are the risk factors for neonatal hypoglycemia? (4) LGA SGA IDM IUGR"
"What is the most common cause of respiratory distress in full-term infants? Transient tachypnea of the newborn"
"What is the cutoff for when antimicrobial prophylaxis against Lyme disease begins? <36 hours"
"Laryngomalacia presents with inspiratory stridor::what auscultatory finding?"
"In patients with tracheomalacia, expiratory stridor::what auscultatory finding? is heard on physical exam"
"Patellofemoral pain can be an overuse injury presenting as progressive knee pain in the setting of running and squatting"
"What is the next best step in management of a patient with overlapping clinical features between transient synovitis and septic arthritis? Bilateral US +/- arthrocentesis"
"What does human milk help improve in infants? Gastric emptying"
"Neonatal clavicular fractures usually heal rapidly T::T/F"
"What is the treatment for traumatic clavicular fractures in older children? Displaced fractures → surgically reduce Nondisplaced fractures → figure-of-8 splint"
"Hypospadias is characterized by a ventrally displaced urethral opening and dorsal hooded foreskin"
"Viral rhinosinusitis is more likely than bacterial rhinosinusitis in pts who are afebrile with mild symptoms that improve within 10 days"
"What is the first step in routine neonatal resuscitation? Dry and stimulate the infant"
"A patient with nocturnal headaches and morning vomiting are concerning for what? Elevated ICP"
"What supportive medication is required to improve long-term survival in patients with β-thalassemia? Chelation therapy"
"2 month hx of increasing weakness, difficulty feeding, tongue fasciculations and hypotonia = progressive infantile spinal muscular atrophy"
"What are the two most common causes of death among patients with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)? Respiratory insufficiency (d/t respiratory muscle weakness) Aspiration pneumonia (d/t bulbar weakness)"
"What is the etiology of neonatal hyperthyroidism? Transplacental passage of maternal TSH receptor antibody (TRAbs)"
"RDW is low in iron deficiency anemia F::T/F"
"What conditions are associated with target cells on blood smear? HbC disease Asplenia Liver disease Thalassemia"
"Why shouldn't speculum examinations be performed in prepubertal girls? Narrow vaginal introitus, sensitive hymenal tissue (d/t low estrogen levels)"
"Weber test localizes to left ear → pt hears AC > BC bilaterally → right-sided sensorineural hearing loss::conductive or sensorineural hearing loss/what side?"
"What is the most common cause of non-hereditary sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) in children? Congenital CMV infection"
"A subgaleal hemorrhage is located between what two layers? Periosteum Epicranial aponeurosis"
"Subgaleal hemorrhage is injury to emissary veins::what vasculature structure?"
"Which neonatal soft tissue scalp injury is associated w/ a high risk of hemorrhage and hemorrhagic shock? Subgaleal hemorrhage"
"Which pediatric brain tumor is most commonly associated with raised intracranial pressure? Medulloblastoma"
"What are the common risk factors for developing a brain abscess in a child? (5) Otitis media Mastoiditis Dental infection Sinusitis Cyanotic heart disease"
"When elevated intracranial pressure is suspected, neuroimaging should precede lumbar puncture because of the risk of cerebral herniation"
"Newborn w/ hypospadias = karyotype analysis::next best step in evaluation?"
"Centor criteria is appropriate for all ages F::T/F"
"Childhood depression is often associated with stomach aches and headaches::what symptoms?"
"Miliaria is due to blockage of the eccrine sweat ducts in the setting of increased heat or humidity"
"Miliaria::Diagnosis?"
"Where does keratosis pilaris most commonly manifest on the body? Posterior surface of the upper arm"
"Keratosis pilaris::Diagnosis"
"Rapid Diagnosis Thydroid function test shows high TSH and low free T4 in congenital hypothyroidism."
"What are important alarm symptoms in suspected meningitis? (4) Signs of elevated ICP FNDs AMS Immunocompromised"
"At what age should an infant be able to stand unassisted and walk while holding objects for support? 12 months"
"At what age should a child be able to sit momentarily? 6 months"
"At what age should a child be able to transfer objects between hands? 6 months"
"Why are children with cyanotic congenital heart disease (e.g. tetralogy of Fallot) at an increased risk for brain abscess? R → L shunting of venous blood allows bacteria to bypass the pulmonary circulation and hematogenously spread"
"What patient populations are eligible for varicella-zoster immunoglobulin (VZIG)? (3) Neonates Pregnant women Immunocompromised"
"When do children receive their first dose the varicella vaccine? Between 12-15 months"
"Maneuvers that decrease::decrease/increase venous blood return to the heart typically reduce the intensity of innocent murmurs"
"How does neonatal sepsis classically present? Temperature instability"
"What is a classic red flag for hemiplegia in infants before 1 year of age? Definite hand preference"
"What is the treatment for Campylobacter gastroenteritis? Supportive care (e.g. rehydration)"
"HPV Vaccine 2 doses should be administered 6 months apart to all between the ages of 11 and 12 years"
"Buzzword \Air trapping\\" and hyperinflation: COPD::COPD/Asthma/Atelectasis\""
"Chronic hemolysis w/o adequate folic acid intake increases the risk for folate deficiency"
"Low serum K+ levels can cause seizures F::T/F"
"Ambiguous genitalia as an infant and presents w/ primary amenorrhea, severe acne, tall stature, +/- osteoporosis = aromatase deficiency"
"Kernicterus can cause hearing impairment T::T/F"
"Cromolyn sodium is used for acute bronchodilation F → used for bronchospasm prevention::T/F"
"Growth failure is either persistent weight below 5th::% percentile, or falling off the growth chart (crossing two major percentile lines)"
"Umbilical artery catheterization → showers of emboli/thrombi → lodge in renal artery → renal artery thrombosis → increased renin release"
"Acoustic neuromas are common among the elderly T::T/F"
"What is lindane indicated to treat? (2) Scabies Lice"
"Most communicating hydroceles require surgical intervention F::T/F"
"Why is percutaneous drainage not an appropriate treatment option for communicating hydroceles? Aspiration brings no benefits as processus vaginalis will fill again w/ peritoneal fluid after drainage"
"Femoral neck fractures are most common among adolescents F::T/F"
"Renal biopsy reveals normal kidney architecture among which nephrotic/nephritic syndrome? Minimal change disease"
"Jejunal atresia: Vascular accident in utero::mechanism? → necrosis and reabsorption of the jejunum Common risk factors? Vasoconstrictive drugs during pregnancy"
"Why is there thrombocytopenia in splenic sequestration crisis during acute severe anemia in sicle cell disease? Platelets are trapped in spleen"
"What is management for small periappendiceal abscess? Bowel rest, IV antibiotic therapy followed by interval appendectomy after 6–8 weeks"
"What are the indications for surgical intervention in necrotizing enterocolitis? Perforation Peritonitis Clinical worsening despite medical therapy::3"
"Bronchitis/Bronchiolitis = wheezing::auscultatory finding?"
"Goiter = can be both hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism::hypothyroidism/hyperthyroidism"
"Which malignancy crosses midline? Neuroblastoma::Neuroblastoma/Wilms tumor"
"Patients can bear weight with septic arthritis of the knee F::T/F"
"Dilated cardiomyopathy = S3::S3/S4 gallop"
"What is the best initial test for chronic otitis media w/ effusion? Pneumatic otoscopy (to assess the tympanic membrane)"
"Definition of serous otitis media? Middle ear effusion w/o acute inflammation"
"C. difficile-associated diarrhea (CDAD) cannot have traces of occult blood F::T/F"
"Kids 10-18 should receive a booster of TdaP T::T/F"
"Meningococcal vaccine is given between 11-18 yo"
"What is first-line treatment for UTI in children? 3rd-gen cephalosporins (e.g. cefotaxime)"
"Absence of 2° pubertal development is normal in girls ≤ 14, and boys ≤ 15 T::T/F"
"Bronchodilators, epinephrine, and corticosteroids are part of the treatment for bronchiolitis F::T/F"
"All patients < 24 years old that are sexually active should be screened for what? Chlamydia and gonorrhea"
"Calcaneal apophysitis most commonly presents as pain at the base of the heel in an active boy *bonus: what is the diagnostic test used for this diagnosis?"
"What are the two diagnostic findings for calcaneal apophysitis? Tenderness at base of the heel (+) Calcaneal compression test"
"Uterus fundus located at level of umbilicus = no uterine atony"
"Abnormal uterine bleeding is further subcategorized by PALM-COEIN; with structural causes including: - Polyp - Adenomyosis - Leiomyoma - Malignancy / hyperplasia"
"Loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) is used to diagnose atypical glandular cells (AGC) on Pap test F::T/F"
"What is the pathomechanism for why multiple gestation is a risk factor for hyperemesis gravidarum? Elevated hCG → ↑ nausea Elevated progesterone ↑ relaxation of LES → ↑ vomiting"
"Androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS): - Minimal to no axillary or pubic hair development occurs due to peripheral androgen resistance"
"A serum FSH level is required for diagnosis of menopause F::T/F"
"In the postpartum period, how does obsessive-compulsive disorder commonly manifest? Fears of contaminating and harming the baby::Common example"
"Which cause of dysmenorrhea is a diagnosis of exclusion? Primary::Primary/secondary dysmenorrhea"
"What are five common possible causes for a ddx. of secondary dysmenorrhea? Endometriosis PID IUD Uterine leiomyoma Adenomyosis"
"Hyperemesis gravidarum = metabolic alkalosis::what pH imbalance will be seen?"
"What is a common side effect of levonorgestrel-containing IUD? Amenorrhea"
"Which of the following confers an increased risk of preterm delivery? Cold knife conization::Cold knife conization/Cervical laser ablation"
"PPROM is rupture of membranes at <37 weeks::# weeks?"
"What are the three risk factors for leiomyosarcoma/uterine sarcoma? Pelvic radiation Tamoxifen use Postmenopausal patients"
"Amniotic bands commonly constrict limbs::what part of the fetus?"
"What is the best next step in management of acute hemolytic transfusion reaction? Intravenous normal saline"
"Fetal hypoxic brain injury is typically due to acute uteroplacental insufficiency (e.g. labor stress or abruptio placentae)"
"Can uteroplacental insufficiency lead to fetal growth restriction even if neonate is delivered at term? Yes::Yes/No"
"Post-hysterectomy complication: peritoneal leakage through vagina seen, apex infalmmed = vaginal cuff dehiscence"
"What is the mechanism of OCP that reduces the risk of endometrial cancer? Progestin counteracts estrogen's effect on endometrial proliferation"
"What is the mechanism for why asymptomatic bacteriuria is a risk factor for PPROM? Proximity of bladder, perineum, and rectum → bacteria can easily migrate between → bacteria spread to vagina and uterus (common in pregnancy)::Consider the anatomy"
"Cervical conization for CIN3 + negative surgical margins = repeat Pap and HPV cotesting at 1 and 2 years::next best step in management?"
"A recommended vision screening at least once in all children ages: 3- to 5-years-old"
"What pathology are you trying to detect in a vision screening of children: Amblyopia"
"What type of intervention is recommended for adults who engage in risky or hazardous drinking: Behavioral counseling"
"Who should be screened for syphilis infections? Persons at increased risk Pregnant women::2"
"Patients should receive a low- to moderate-dose statin for the prevention of CVD events and mortality when all of the following criteria are met: 1) Ages 40- to 75-years old 2) 1 or more CVD risk factors 3) A calculated 10-year risk of cardiovascular event of 10% or greater"
"Identification of dyslipidemia and calculation of 10-year CVD event risk requires lipid screening in adults ages: 40- to 75-years-old"
"Annual screening for lung cancer with low-dose CT in adults ages 50 to 80 years who have a(n) 20 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 years"
"Skin cancer counseling to patients with fair skin types should consist of: Minimizing exposure to untraviolet (UV) radiation"
"When should you counsel patients on sexually transmitted diseases? If they are: 1) Sexually active adolescents 2) Adults who are at high risk"
"When should Rh (D) blood typing and antibody testing for all pregnant women be done: First visit"
"When should you repeat the Rh (D) antibody testing for all unsensitized (D)-negative women: 24- to 28-week's gestation::Gestation week"
"When wouldn't you have to repeat the Rh (D) antibody testing in unsensitized Rh (D)-negative women: When biological father is Rh (D)-negative"
"Women should be recommended to use low-dose aspirin (81mg/d) as preventive medication who are at high risk for preeclampsia after 12 weeks gestation"
"How is preeclampsia in pregnant women screened: Blood pressure measurements throughout pregnancy"
"Phenylketonuria screening should be done at what age: Newborn screening"
"At what age should screening for osteoporosis be done in women: ≥ 65"
"Clinicians should offer or refer adults to intensive, multicomponent behavioral interventions if they have a BMI of: ≥30"
"Clinicians should offer or refer obese children and adolescents to intensive, multicomponent behavioral interventions at what ages: 6-years or older"
"Latent tuberculosis infections should be screened in what populations: Populations at increased risk::Very generalized"
"Screening for intimate partner violence against women occurs at what age range: Reproductive age"
"Do you screen for congenital hypothyroidism? Yes"
"How do you handle patients who smoke: Advise them to stop → get them in counseling and on FDA-approved pharmacotherapy for cessation"
"At what age can you start screening patients for HIV: 15-years-old"
"All pregnant women should be screened for HIV, including those who present in labor who are untested and whose HIV status is unknown T::T/F"
"Who should be screened for hepatitis C? Adults aged 18-79"
"Screenings for hepatitis B in nonpregant adolescents and adults should be done when the patient is: High-risk"
"When should pregnant women be screened for hepatitis B: First prenantal visit"
"One-time screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) for men (ages 65-75) who have ever: Smoked"
"What is the age range for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) screening in men who have smoked: 65- to 75-years-old"
"Low-dose aspirin is used for primary prevention of what conditions: Cardiovascular Disease & Colorectal Cancer"
"Low-dose aspirin (81 mg) is used on adults aged 50 to 59 years with what percent of 10-year cardiovascular risk: ≥10% 10-year cardiovascular risk::%?"
"Which of the following has vaginal tissue narrowing or clitorial tissue shrinkage? Atrophic vaginitis::Atrophic vaginitis/Vulvodynia"
"Maternal fatigue is an indication for vacuum-assisted vaginal delivery T::T/F"
"What is the best next step in management of a pregnant patient with rectus abdominis diastasis? Observation and reassurance"
"Abdominal binders are not recommended in pregnancy T::T/F"
"What is the effect of estrogen on bone mineral density? Regulates breakdown of osteoclasts"
"Progestin challenge test → no/minimal bleeding Low estrogen levels::What is the estrogen status?"
"Pregnant patient and nontender midline mass appreciated with Valsalva is suggestive of rectus abdominis diastasis::diagnosis?"
"Asthmatic w/ postpartum hemorrhage, failed uterine massage and high-dose oxytocin is managed with tranexamic acid::best next step?"
"Advanced maternal age is a risk factors for fetal growth restriction F::T/F"
"Global growth lag is associated with which of the following forms of FGR? Symmetric::Symmetric/Asymmetric"
"Sinusoidal fetal heart rate pattern = category III::what FHR category?"
"What FHR tracing is likely associated with chorioamnionitis? Fetal tachycardia"
"What FHR alteration is likely associated with oligohydramnios? Variable decelerations"
"Pelvic organ prolapse is common among postmenopausal patients T::T/F"
"Pelvic organ prolapse is associated with primary amenorrhea F::T/F"
"Cervicitis Mucopurulent discharge = Chlamydia::Chlamydia/Gonorrhea Purulent discharge = Gonorrhea::Chlamydia/Gonorrhea"
"Sertoli-Leydig tumor often has bilateral ovarian enlargement F::T/F"
"Women < 35 yo should undergo tests for infertility if they have been trying to conceive unsuccessfully for 12 months; for women > 35 yo, the time period is 6 months"
"Rapid Diagnosis: secondary amenorrhea If β-hCG is negative, follow with serum FSH, TSH, and prolactin levels::three tests"
"ABO incompatability typically occurs between a mother with blood group O and an infant with blood group A or B which can cause mild hemolytic disease of the newborn"
"Hepatitis C virus is among the recommended universal prenatal screening T::T/F"
"When are patients screened for GBS infection? 35-37 weeks"
"Routine testing for toxoplasmosis is recommended if patient has cats F::T/F"
"What do current guidelines recommend in the treatment against gonococcal infections? Ceftriaxone"
"What is the most common complication of twin pregnancies? Preterm delivery"
"What is fetal dysmaturity syndrome? Post-term pregnancy d/t age-related placental changes and resultant uteroplacental insufficiency"
"When are women screened for gestational diabetes mellitus? 24-28 weeks (end of second trimester)"
"What is an example of a \markedly elevated β-hCG level\\" in the context of a hydatiform mole? >100"
"The uterus is generally enlarged in the setting of endometriosis F::T/F"
"Does Mittelschmerz pain occur during menses? No It occurs during ovulation midycle during rupture of the follicular cyst"
"Head circumference is the most accurate method of determining gestational age F::T/F"
"Intrauterine fetal demise (stillbirth) = ≥ 20 weeks"
"Maternal (postpartum) blues normally resolves within 10 days::time?"
"Clitoromegaly is an example of virilization"
"First-line intrauterine resuscitation measure? Repositioning of the mother"
"If maternal repositioning of mother is unsuccessful, what are the subsequent intrauterine resuscitation measures that can be taken? Amnioinfusion Give tocolytics (if tachysystole present) Emergency C-section"
"What classic sign is seen on tocodynametry in the setting of uterine rupture? Staircase sign"
"When is the McRoberts manuever performed? Facilitates deliver in pts w/ shoulder dystocia"
"Polyhydramnios is a marker for placental insufficiency F::T/F"
"PPROM is a complication of oligohydramnios F::T/F"
"Meconium aspiration is a complication of polyhydramnios F::T/F"
"Ultrasound cervical length measurements are performed in the third trimester in high-risk women F::T/F"
"How is the uterus and adnexa described in a patient with endometriosis? Fixed, immobile uterus w/ ± adnexal masses (d/t ectopic glands and stroma)"
"Intrauterine fetal demise - fetal death after 20 weeks, no fetal cardiac activity Management: - 20-23 weeks: dilation and evacuation OR vaginal delivery (C-section by maternal choice or prior classical) - >24 weeks: vaginal delivery (C-section by maternal choice or prior classical) - Complication: coagulopathy after several weeks of retention"
"Indirect antiglobulin (Coombs) test is performed at 24-28 weeks F::T/F"
"HbA1c is measured at the initial prenatal visit F::T/F"
"Routine administration of Rho (D) immune globulin for Rh-negative pregnant mothers at 28 weeks gestation and within 72 hours postpartum"
"Uninhibited bladder contractions = urge incontinence::type of urinary incontinence – detrusor muscle hyperactivity::etiology"
"Protracted active phase is when you have < 1cm dilation over 2 hours"
"Primary dysmenorrhea: cramping lower abdominal pain occurring immediately prior to or during menstruation"
"Pregnancy: • Corpus luteum is responsible for producing progesterone during the first 6-12 weeks of gestation • Placenta takes over progesterone production around 8-12 weeks"
"Why are the initial menstrual cycles in adolescents irregular and anovulatory? Hypoathalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis immaturity"
"- Vaginal bleeding - Closed cervical os - Fetal cardiac activity Threatened abortion::Type of miscarriage?"
"How are lymph nodes characterized in the setting of a Haemophilus ducreyi genital infection? Severe lymphadenopathy that may suppurate (pus forming)"
"Weight loss is recommended adjuvant therapy for treatment of gestational diabetes mellitus F::T/F"
"At term, what is the most likely cause of new-onset oligohydramnios? Spontaneous rupture of membranes"
"Primary ovarian insufficiency = hyper::hyper/hypogonadotropic hypo::hyper/hypogonadism"
"Compression of the femoral nerve can occur with prolonged pushing and extreme hip flexion (lithotomy position during childbirth)"
"PCOS has elevated testosterone levels T::T/F"
"Migraine with aura is a contraindication to estrogen use T::T/F"
"Mammography screening for breast cancer starts at age 55 F::T/F"
"Whenever there is a size-date discrepancy with the fetus, its best to do a(n) ultrasound"
"Why is an ovarian torsion a complication of cystic teratoma? Variable mass densities cause intrinsically unstable suspension across the infundibulopelvic ligaments"
"Amniotic fluid embolism has features of DIC T::T/F"
"Lichen sclerosus involves both the vagina and vulva F::T/F"
"Increased cervical cancer is a known risk factor of OCPs T::T/F"
"Where are Bartholin glands located? Posterior, lower vulvar vestibule at 4 and 8 o'clock position::Think in terms of a clock"
"Why are hormone-containing methods of contraception avoided in patients with breast cancer? Estrogen and progesterone may have proliferative effect on breast tissue"
"Patients at risk for preterm birth often have shortened cervical lengths (≤ 2.5 cm)"
"What are the differences between mild and severe forms of carpal tunnel syndrome? Severe = weak thumb abduction, opposition and thenar eminence atrophy"
"What is the best contraceptive option for breastfeeding postpartum patients? Why? Progestin-only contraception No increase in thromboembolism risk"
"Difference in presentation between placenta previa and vasa previa? Placenta previa = heavy, persistent bleeding Vasa previa = minimal, transient bleeding"
"Breastfeeding should be suspended only if what occurs? Nipple area is actively bleeding"
"Hypertension does not increase the risk for PPROM T::T/F"
"Hypertension increases the risk of superimposed preeclampsia, abruptio placentae, fetal growth restriction, preterm labor, and stillbirth"
"What is the best next step in management of a patient at term gestation w/ mild, asymptomatic polyhydramnios? Expectant management What would be management of a patient w/ polyhydramnios at preterm gestation? Amnioreduction (e.g. amniocentesis)"
"Why is there an increased risk of pyelonephritis during pregnancy? Widened ureters (caused by progesteron) and increased glucose levels in urine → ascension of organisms to the kidney"
"Difference between induction of labor and augmentation of labor? What drugs help facilitate either? IOL → misoprostol AOL → oxytocin "
"24-hour urine collection for total protein is done at the initial prenatal visit T::T/F"
"What are two obstetric complications that occur when administered indomethicin tocolysis at <32 weeks gestation? Oligohydramnios Premature closure of ductus arteriosus"
"What is pseudothrombocytopenia? Laboratory error characterized by platelet aggregation in vitro"
"External cephalic version is performed before attempting a C-section F::T/F"
"A prior classical Cesarean delivery is a contraindication to vaginal delivery T::T/F"
"Amnioinfusion is indicated for late fetal decelerations or tachysystole F::T/F"
"Bladder outlet obstruction::type of urinary incontinence = diabetic neuropathy"
"Poor maternal weight gain is a risk factor for preterm delivery T::T/F"
"What is the management of hydronephrosis during pregnancy? None; it is physiologic"
"Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome is associated with polyhydramnios T::T/F"
"Progestin replacement is protective against endometrial hyperplasia T::T/F"
"Fetal sleep is the MCC of a nonreactive nonstress test (e.g. no accelerations) T::T/F"
"Can you have uterine contractions in the setting of pyelonephritis? Yes; microorganisms may release cytokines and prostaglandins → uterine contractions"
"What is a physiological reason as to having low phenytoin concentration in a pregnant patient? Pregnancy → ↑ proteins that bind phenytoin → ↓ phenytoin concentration"
"How can breastfeeding lead to vaginal atrophy? Breastfeeding (↑ prolactin) → ↓ GnRH → ↓ LH and ↓ FSH → ↓ estrogen → vaginal dryness (atrophy)"
"Most fetuses spontaneously rotate into a longitudinal lie by term T::T/F"
"Chorioamnionitis is an indication for C-section F::T/F"
"There is uterine enlargement with endometrial polyps F::T/F"
"Multiparous patients should experience faster first and second stages of labor compared to nulliparous patients T::T/F"
"Patients at high risk for preeclampsia (e.g. multiple gestation) are initiated on low-dose aspirin prophylaxis for preeclampsia"
"Virilization can be seen in PCOS F::T/F"
"What is the pathophysiology of cholelithiasis in pregnancy? Increased biliary cholesterol excretion Decreased gallbladder motility::2"
"Passive congestion is generally a sign of decompensated right heart failure"
"What is vaginismus? Dyspareunia due to muscle spasm that prevents vaginal penetration"
"Pelvic radiotherapy can cause overflow incontinence F::T/F"
"A postvoid residual volume < 50 ml is normal T::T/F"
"What is the typical age demographic for which adenomyosis presents? Multiparous women age >40"
"Right adenexal tenderness, fever, peritoneal signs and normal adnexa on U/S = acute appendicitis"
"Increased AFP is seen in trisomy 21 F::T/F"
"Women age <45 do not have endometrial cells reported on their Pap tests because this is a common, benign finding T::T/F"
"A progesterone withdrawal test is used to evaluate secondary amenorrhea T::T/F"
"What is the best next step in management of a patient w/ AUB who failed medical management (e.g. OCPs)? Endometrial biopsy (for eval of hyperplasia/cancer)"
"CA-125 has high specificity in premenopausal women F::T/F"
"An anti-D antibody titer of 1:32 is adequate alloimmunization F::T/F"
"In the immediate postpartum period, why can some women develop chills and shivering? Decreased estrogen and progesterone levels → mild hyperthermia"
"Oxytocin augmentation worsens uteroplacental blood flow T::T/F"
"Is 1+ proteinuria considered trace proteinuria? No; 1+ is suggestive of pathology"
"Endometrial biopsy is indicated for all women >45 with postmenopausal or abnormal uterine bleeding"
"USPSTF recommends HIV antibody screen 1 time for adults 15-65 T::T/F"
"Ovaries are commonly palpated on bimanual pelvic examination F::T/F"
"Inefficient detrusor muscle activity → hypotonic bladder (common postoperative complication)"
"Should RhoD immunoglobulin be given after an amniocentesis? Yes::Yes/No"
"What is the greatest risk factor for osteoporosis? Advanced age"
"↓ Estradiol::Estradiol/Estrone/Estriol production → genitourinary syndrome of menopause (atrophic vaginitis)"
"Cystoscopy is typically performed for suspected bladder cancer or UTI"
"Obesity is associated with increased risk of fracture F::T/F"
"Patient with intra-amniotic infection (e.g. chorioamnionitis) is managed with therapeutic abxs and immediate delivery::treatment"
"Endometrial cancer is a risk from endometriosis F::T/F"
"Vulvovaginal atrophy commonly involves the perianal region F::T/F"
"Which of the following vulvar pathologies is due to chronic itching and scratching? Lichen simplex chronicus::Lichen sclerosus/Lichen simplex chronicus"
"Why is obesity the most common risk factor for developing endometrial cancer? Adipose tissue increases the conversion of androgens to estrogens"
"OCPs before menopause have an increased risk of cervical carcinoma but a decreased risk of endometrial and ovarian carcinoma"
"Unexplained, abnormal vaginal bleeding is a contraindication only to hormonal-releasing IUDs F::T/F"
"Why is HPV cotesting not recommended for ages 21-29? Most HPV infections spontaneously clear in these pts"
"Amnioinfusion is not contraindicated in a patient with a history of uterine surgery F::T/F"
"Why are leiomyomatas more likely to degenerate during pregnancy? Because myometrial blood flow shifts toward the developing fetus and placenta"
"What is the first-line treatment for vaginismus? Pelvic floor physical therapy"
"A normal 1-hour glucose challenge test is <140 mg/dL"
"Patients with müllerian agenesis lack ovaries F::T/F"
"Patients with androgen insensitvity syndrome (AIS) have normal axillary and pubic hair F::T/F"
"Why do patients with androgen insensitivity syndrome (AIS) have breast development? Increased testosterone is aromatized to estrogen"
"What is the prevailing pathomechanism for why conditioned athletes have functional hypothalamic amenorrhea? Relative caloric deficiency"
"Squamous cell carcinoma usually presents in women age >60 T::T/F"
"Performing an amniotomy prior to head engagement can cause cord prolapse"
"With 6 cm dilation, presenting fetal part should be palpable T::T/F"
"Cocaine abuse → placental abruption"
"Early postcoital voiding reduces risk of UTI T::T/F"
"History of mastitis is a contraindication towards breastfeeding F::T/F"
"If cervical changes slows to <1cm/2 hr (labor protraction), what are the following step(s)? Place an IUPC to measure contraction If inadequate, augment w/ oxytocin"
"Duodenal atresia::What is seen on fetal ultrasound?"
"What is asthma? Reactive obstructive airway disease caused by inflammation and bronchoconstriction that results in ↑ resistance to airflow Immunologic pathology? It's allergc disease (Asthma, Allergy, Atopy) and is likewise IgE/Mast cell mediated"
"Rapid Diagnosis: Asthma Presentation: cough, wheezing, dyspnea; may also have tightness during acute attacks Physical exam: prolonged expiratory phase w/ potentially hyperinflated or hyperresonant chest (ominous sign)"
"If someone comes in with an acute onset of wheezing and dyspnea, what is the first step? SKIP the diagnosis and move directly to treatment"
"Best diagnostic modality for outpatient asthmatic patient? PFT Other, ways to diagnose asthma? Expected results? Eosinophilia on CBC or sputum sample Charcot-Leyden Crystals or Curschmann's spirals on sputum Allergen skin test for severe, refractory, or to assess triggers::Three other diagnostic tools"
"What to do for a patient with suspected asthma with a normal FEV1/FVC? Methacholine challenge test to provoke bronchoconstriction"
"Diagnostic (that is also treatment) for an acute asthma? Reverse asthma with bronchodilators (SABA)"
"General treatment concept for asthma as follows: 1. Bronchostriction → SABA/LABA and Leukotrienes + Theophylline 2. Inflammation → Inhaled/PO Corticosteroids 3. Stabilizing → Cromolyn/Nedocromil Of the previous three symptoms, asthma treatment should be focused mainly on which one? Controlling bronchoconstriction and inflammation"
"Asthma classification and treatment: 1. SABA 2. SABA + ICS 3. SABA + ICS + LABA 4. SABA + ↑ICS + LABA 5. SABA + ↑↑ICS + LABA + Oral steroids"
"Examples of the following asthma medications: - SABA: albuterol, xopenex (Levalbuterol) - ICS: fluticasone, budesonide, beclomethasone - ICS/LABA: fluticasone/salmeterol (Advair), budesonide/formoterol (Symbicort) - Leukotriene antagonists: montelukast, zafirlukast - Anticholinergic/SABA: ipratropium/abuterol (DuoNeb) - Anticholinergic/LABA: tiotropium/olodaterol (Stiolto)"
"What to keep in mind before adding new asthma medications? Make sure they're using inhalers properly and w/ proper adherence; use spacers if need be"
"What to prescribe for exercised-induced asthma with known triggers? IgE/Histamine stabilizers (Nedocromil or Cromolyn Sulfate) Can be used immediately before known exposure"
"What is the workup for an acute exacerbation of asthma? (4) Peak expiratory flow rates (PEFR) Physical exam ABG CXR: to r/o other causes of dyspnea; not helpful for asthma"
"ED/inpatient treatment for acute asthma exacerbation: 1. O2 2. Albuterol/Ipratropium nebs 3. Methylprednisolone IV → Prednisone PO (corticosteroids) -If no improvement w/in 3 hours of continuous nebs → ICU -If better (100% improvement & symptom free) → discharge -Anywhere in between, admission → albuterol and ipratropium q4hrs w/ ongoing oral/IV steroids"
"Recommended screening for asymptomatic bacteriuria with a urine culture in pregnant women should be done at what weeks' gestation: 12 to 16 weeks"
"At what age do you start screening for high blood pressure: 18-years-old"
"What is needed to confirm diagnosis of high blood pressure: Measurements outside of the clinical setting::assume you have clinical measurements"
"Primary care providers should screen women who have family members with, breast, ovarian, tubal, or peritoneal cancer; for they might have what potentially harmful mutation(s): BRCA1 or BRCA2"
"Women who are at increased risk for breast cancer and low risk for adverse medication effects should receive: Tamoxifen or raloxifene"
"Recommended screening mammography for women should be done: Every 2 years"
"At what age should women start receiving mammograms: 50-years-old"
"Breastfeeding interventions should be done when: During pregnancy and after birth"
"What hemoglobinopathy is screened as a newborn: Sickle cell disease"
"Patients who are overweight or obese and have additional cardiovascular disease risk factors should be educated on: Healthy diet and exercise"
"Screening for gonorrhea in sexually active women starts at what age or younger? 25-years-old"
"Prophylactic ocular topical medication for all newborns for the prevention of: Gonococcal ophthalmia neonatorum"
"Asymptomatic pregnant women should be tested for gestational diabetes mellitus after what week of gestation: 24 weeks"
"When should women take daily supplement of folic acid (range): If they are capable of becoming pregnant, then they need to supplement"
"What type of interventions are recommended to prevent falls in community-dwelling adults 65 years or older who are at increased risk of falling: Exercise/PT"
"At what age range would you screen overweight or obese patients for diabetes: 40- to 70-years-old"
"Patients with abnormal blood glucose levels receive counseling on: Healthy diet and physical activity"
"At what age do you start screening for major depressive disorder (MDD) in adolescents: 12-years-old"
"Should you be screening the general adult population, including pregnant and postpartum women for depression? Yes, please do"
"The USPSTF recommends that primary care clinicians prescribe oral fluoride supplementation starting at age 6 months for children whose water supply is deficient in fluoride"
"Colorectal cancer screenings start at what age: 45-years-old"
"Chlamydia screenings should be done on sexually active women age: 24 years or younger"
"For women aged 21-29, how often should they receive cervical cancer screenings: Every 3 years"
"Women aged 21-29 should receive what type of cervical cancer screening: Cervical cytology only::Cytology only/HPV only/Both"
"How often should women aged 30-65 receive cervical cancer screenings that is cytology only: Every 3 years"
"How often should women aged 30-65 at high risk for HPV receive cervical cancer screenings that is hrHPV testing alone: Every 5 years"
"How often should women aged 30-65 receive cervical cancer screenings that cotest hrHPV testing and cytology: Every 5 years"
"At what age should women start receiving cervical cancer screenings: 21-years-old"
"What does the seborrheic dermatitis look like? Think of this as \super-dandruff\\". Dandruff is flaking of the scalp Etiology? Fungal infection causing inflammatory reaction in areas rich in sebaceous glands Most common locations? Generally hair"
"Treatment for sebborheic dermatitis? Selenium shampoo 2nd line? topical steroids if no decrease in inflammation Low-yield test associations? HIV, cradle cap (infants), and Parkinson's disease"
"Pathophysiology of psoriasis? Autoimmune disease causing proliferation of keratinocytes w/ excessive accumulation of the stratum corneum. D/t dysregulation of T-Helper cells"
"Psoriasis imaging? Symmetric, well-demarcated silvery scales that bleed when picked"
"Where can psoriasis be commonly found? Scalp Gluteal folds Elbows Knees"
"Common complication of psoriasis? Nail pitting and onycholysis (detachment of the nailbed) are common"
"Psoriasis and joint pain is suggestive of psoriatic arthritis::diagnosis?"
"Treatment for psoriasis? 1st line (mild): topical corticosteroids and/or topical Vit D analog (mod to severe): UV light (sunlight or artificial exposure) / narrow-band UVB methotrexate/apremilast/biologic agent/oral retinoid Flares: topical steroids Additional management? MAY have the need to biopsy to r/o lymphoma if the dx is in question (such as if patient has any history of lymphoma)"
"What does the Pityriasis Rosea look like? Begins with flat, oval, salmon-colored macule called the herald patch Progresses to several salmon-colored scaling lesions with a trailing scale (the scale does not reach the border of the salmon-colored lesion)"
"Pityriasis rosea will always spare this body part: Palms and soles"
"Treatment for Pityriasis Rosea? A benign and self-limiting condition that resolves on its own (~6 weeks) Etiology? Unknown what causes it"
"Pityriasis rosea can be the initial presentation of what disease? Syphilis Involvement of this body part will greatly increase its chances? Involvement of the hands and soles"
"What does the lichen planus look like? Symptoms? Intensely pruritic pink or purple flat topped papules w/ a reticulated network of fine white lines Where is it usually found? Wrists, ankles, but may involve the trunk, oral mucosa, or vaginal mucosa Etiology? Inflammatory disorder of unknown etiology"
"Treatment for lichen planus? Topical steroids are the mainstay of therapy (but should be continued long-term) + UV light is used as an adjunct (as opposed to psoriasis where it's more effective)"
"What drugs are associated with the lichenoid drug eruption (drug-induced lichen planus)? ACE-i Thiazides Furosemide β-blockers::4"
"Five P's of lichen planus: Pruritic Planar (flat top) Polyangular Purple papules"
"Common disease in men. Top of the head (the crown) begins to thin - eventually hair loss predominates. Dx? Androgenic Alopecia (male pattern baldness) - largely cosmetic disease Pathology? 5-DHT is implicated"
"Initial therapy for male pattern baldness? Minoxidil topically, and finasteride orally Treatment for women? Women: OCP's (suppress ovarian production of hormones) and spironolactone"
"What is alopecia areata? Autoimmune disorder against hair follicles What does it look like? Creates a well-defined circular bald spot"
"Treatment for alopecia areata? Steroids - topical, intralesional, and systemic depending on severity"
"Circular bald spot with all hairs at equal length: Dx? Tinea capitis - superficial fungal infection caused by Trichophyton tonsurans Etiology? KOH prep must be ordered to visualize the diagnosis Diagnostics? Trichophyton doesn't fluoresce under Wood's Lamp"
"Treatment for tinea capitis? Oral Griseofulvin (note: NOT topical) Complication? Failure to treat will result in permanent hair loss"
"Patient compulsively pulls out hair one stand at a time. Dx? Trichotillomania - psychiatric disease This dx is highly associated with? High association with anxiety disorders (PTSD, OCD, MDD); commonly women"
"How to distinguish trichotillomania w/ other diseases? Pathy alopecia with hair regrowth at different lengths since the pt pulls out hairs at different time frames Diagnostics? Diagnosis is made by shaving a \window\\" at her scalp and assessing equal hair growth within the window; the regrowing hair is too short to be plucked"
"Treatment for trichotillomania? Treat the compulsion; refer to psychiatry"
"Disease mostly arising from extreme braiding? Traction alopecia - permanent scarring resulting in permanent alopecia that's secondary to keeping the hair pulled tightly Treatment? Irreversible once it occurs"
"Terminology when chemo disrupts growth, producing thin fragile hairs that shed with light touch, effectively skipping from anagen to exogen: Anagen-effluvium"
"Thinning the hair as the hair follicles exit growth phase too early: Telogen-effluvium::Diagnosis?"
"Pemphigus Vulgaris Cause: autoimmune on desmoglein (found between the epithelial cells) Sx: Positive (Blisters are thin, tear easily::Positive/Negative Nikolsky Dx +Bx: Tombstone effect on bx; immuno will show Abs on epithelial cells throughout the skin lesion Tx: Systemic steroids followed by myco mofetil or rituximab Epidemiology: ages 30-50"
"Bullous Pemphigoid Causes: Autoimmune, hemidesmosomes that attach the BM cells to the BM Sx: Negative::Positive/Negative Nikolsky Dx and Bx: Intact epithelium on bx with immunoflu showing Abs at the dermal-epidermal junction Tx: Steroids during acute attacks"
"Dermatitis Herpetiformis Causes: IgA Abs on transglutaminase Sx: Extensor surfaces of the body for a pruritic vesicular eruption Dx and Bx: Anti-endomysial Abs or anti-transglutaminase Abs; neutrophil abscess Tx: Remove gluten from the diet"
"Porphyria Cutanea Tarda Causes: OCPs, EtOH, Hep C, and Hemochromatosis → due to deficiency of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase Dx: Coral red urine in Wood's lamp; bullae on sun-exposed areas Tx: Avoid the sun"
"Pneumonia::Atelectasis or pneumonia presents with productive cough and pleuritic chest pain"
"What valvular change commonly occurs as a late complication of rheumatic fever? Mitral stenosis"
"Graded exercise therapy decreases mortality in patients with PAD F::T/F"
"Which of the following medications is the most appropriate for management of peripheral arterial disease (PAD)? Clopidogrel::Cilostazol/Clopidogrel"
"What common conditions are associated with primary biliary cholangitis? Autoimmune conditions"
"Cutaneous xanthomas can occur in the setting of primary biliary cholangitis T::T/F"
"In an elderly patient without overt signs of bleeding, occult chronic GI bleeding is the most likely cause of iron deficiency anemia and a diagnostic colonoscopy should be performed"
"Pseudomembranous colitis::Diverticulosis or pseudomembranous colitis presents with fever and foul-smelling, watery diarrhea"
"Brain abscesses smaller than 2.5 cm and those with no signs of ICP are managed with empiric antibiotics for bacterial brain abscess"
"Brain abscesses larger than 2.5 cm or those with signs of increased ICP are managed with biopsy and surgical drainage"
"IFN-α is contraindicated among patients with autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus"
"What is the treatment for pregnancy luteomas? Observation only"
"What is the most appropriate next step in management in a < 60 yo pt who presents w/ dyspepsia w/o sxs of GERD, NSAID use, or alarm sxs of malignancy or PUD? Urea breath test"
"Lithium use, chronic bladder discomfort, increased urinary frequency, dyspareunia and negative leukocyte esterase is suggestive of interstitial cystitis::diagnosis?"
"What is the most appropriate recommendation for a teenager w/ appropriately-controlled T1DM who wants to enagage in school sports (physical activity)? Lower insulin dosage on days of exercise"
"Abdominal pain, HTN, generalized fatigue and increase in creatinine within 6 months of renal transplantation = acute rejection of the renal allograft::transplant rejection type?"
"Graft-versus-host disease is mediated via recipient T-cells in the graft F::T/F"
"Which two statins have the lowest risk of statin-associated myopathy? Pravastatin Fluvastatin"
"Patients taking combined oral contraceptive pills are at risk of developing functional ovarian cysts F::T/F"
"Combined oral contraceptives are used to treat severe inflammatory acne in females T::T/F"
"The use of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives increases the risk hypertension T::T/F"
"Dutasteride::Dutasteride/Flutamide/Terazosin = indicated for BPH and decrease prostate size"
"Alpha-blockers have a mild effect on prostate growth or PSA level F::T/F"
"Dyspareunia and pruritus in a postmenopausal woman with a white vulvar plaque on pelvic examination indicates a diagnosis of lichen sclerosus"
"What are the XR findings in transient synovitis? Normal"
"Haloperidol::Haloperidol, lithium, or valproate is the treatment for an agitated and combative patient with acute mania"
"On ultrasound, pancreatic pseudocysts are anechoic or hypoechoic collections"
"On ultrasound, pancreatic abscesses are complex cystic fluid collections"
"Is anxiety disorder associated with specific phobias? No"
"Is anxiety disorder associated with MDD? Yes"
"Insufficient mechanical hemostasis due to a slipped suture or tie is one of the main causes of hemorrhage <24 hours following surgery"
"Erosion of blood vessels due to a surgical site infection results in hemorrhage 7–14 days following surgery"
"Which nonselective β-blocker is contraindicated in asthmatics? Propranolol"
"Propranolol::Drug may be given after RAI (radioactive iodine) ablation to control the possible worsening of symptoms due to the release of preformed thyroid hormones into circulation"
"What alternative therapy can be used in rapid symptomatic control of hyperthyroidism in patients with asthma? Oral CCBs"
"RAI ablation can worsen Graves ophthalmopathy T::T/F"
"Can RAI ablation of thyroid tissue lead to permanant hypothyroidism? Yes Which is actually easier to manage than Graves disease"
"Most patients undergo a second trial of RAI ablation before a decision to perform a thyroid surgery is made T::T/F"
"Endometriosis::Endometriosis or fibroids can compress and shrink the uterus"
"Dichorionic-diamniotic twins::Monochorionic-diamniotic twins/Dichorionic-diamniotic twins"
"Caput medusae and spider angiomata are both signs of hyperestrogenism F::T/F"
"What three mechanisms explain hyperestrogenism in the setting of cirrhosis? (3) Increased peripheral conversion of androgens→ estrogens Decreased hepatic breakdown of estrogen Increased amounts of sex-hormone-binding globulin → increased binding (inactivation) of free testosterone"
"A PPD skin test is not routinely recommended as part of prenatal care T::T/F"
"Feminization can occur in the setting of a Leydig cell tumor T::T/F"
"Interferon-gamma release assay is not influenced by prior BCG vaccination T::T/F"
"What is the recommended treatment for a Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction? NSAIDs (e.g. ibuprofen)"
"Which of the following medications provide fast-acting symptomatic relief during a flare-up of rheumatoid arthritis? Prednisolone::Methotrexate/Prednisolone"
"CURB-65 score ≤ 1 is managed with outpatient treatment indicated::interpretation"
"Outpatient treatment of community-acquired pneumonia is managed with macrolide or doxycycline"
"What is the mechanism for decreased bone mineral density in patients with Cushing syndrome? High levels of cortisol inhibits calcitriol synthesis"
"What is the most common cause of Cushing syndrome? Prolonged glucocorticoid therapy"
"Orbital cellulitis is most commonly caused by bacterial spread from ethmoidal or maxillary sinusitis"
"Blepharitis may present with crusting of the eyelashes, thickened eyelid margins, and a history of waking with eyelashes stuck together"
"Cinacalcet = reduces calcium levels by inhibiting PTH production::MOA Indication = hypercalcemia secondary to hyperparathyroidism"
"What is first-line in management of malignancy-associated hypercalcemia? Bisphosphonates (e.g. zoledronic acid)"
"CURB-65 score ≥ 2 = hospitalization is indicated::interpretation"
"What is the pathophysiology of reactive amyloidosis (secondary amyloidosis)? Chronic inflammatory process → increased production of acute phase reactant SAA → deposition of AA protein in various organs"
"14 yo pt w/ clean, minor wound and unknown immunization hx is managed with active immunization with Tdap::next step in management?"
"Anabolic steroid use leads to hypogonadism T::T/F"
"Bilat hilar lymphadenopathy::What is seen on CXR?"
"Most cases of pulmonary sarcoidosis have a high rate of spontaneous remission T::T/F"
"Fetal weight estimation should not be performed more frequently than every 2 weeks T::T/F"
"Oligohydramnios is an indication for an nonstress test (NST) T::T/F"
"What is a Hampton hump? Wedge-shaped opacity in peripheral lung w/ its base at thoracic wall; caused by pulmonary infarction Not specific for PE"
"Egg protein allergy is a contraindication when administering the influenza vaccine F::T/F"
"Uncontrolled seizure disorder is a relative contraindication for administering DTaP to a 15-month old boy"
"What is the pathophysiology of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in setting of obesity? Adipokines released from fat depots decrease insulin sensitivity of peripheral tissue → hyperinsulinemia (peripheral insulin resistance) → triggers lipid uptake and lipogenesis within hepatocytes"
"NASH is a diagnosis of exclusion T::T/F"
"What is the most appropriate and confirmatory diagnostic step for suspected primary adrenal insufficiency? Cosyntropin or ACTH stimulation test"
"24-hour urine cortisol measurement is an appropriate diagnostic test for suspected adrenal insufficiency F::T/F"
"Urine aldosterone level measurement is an appropriate diagnostic test for evaluation of suspected adrenal insufficiency F::T/F"
"Hypothyroid myopathy::Hypothyroid myopathy or polymyositis presents with sluggish ankle jerks"
"Blood in the stool may be result in a positive stool guaiac test"
"What lab do you order to determine what type of AKI is present if patient is on diuretic? FE(urea)"
"What are the four perfusion-related causes of prerenal AKI? Hypovolemia (bleed, cirrhosis, nephrosis) Hypotension (sepsis, CHF) Renovascular (NSAIDs, renal artery stenosis, fibromuscular dysplasia) Large vessel (thrombosis, dissection)"
"Postrenal AKI: Pathology: caused by obstruction to outflow at any level → ureters have to be blocked bilat whether old man w/ BPH or gout (uric acid crystal deposition) Diagnostics: sonogram to look for residual urine & hydroureter/hydronephrosis Treatment: stent obstruction or remove it"
"Postrenal AKI causes: Bladder (BPH, cancer, neurogenic bladder) Urethral/uretral (stone, cancer) Crystals in tubule (oxalate, urate)"
"Pt has muddy brown casts on U/A, high Cr despite normal urine output .Now his Cr continues to rise, but his urine output is next to nothing: Acute tubular necrosis::Diagnosis?"
"Pt has pre-existing renal damage but needs contrast for a study, what are the next best steps? (3) Vigorous fluids Prophylatic N-Acetyl-Cysteine Hold ACE/ARBs & diuretics"
"ATN causes: Prolonged ischemia Toxins (drugs, myoglobin, Ig) Contrast induced"
"AIN causes: Allergic reactions (NSAIDs, Bactrim, Lactams (cephalo's & PCN) → eosinophilia will be present Infxn (pyelo) Infiltrative (sarcoid, amyloid, multiple myeloma)"
"Pt has muddy brown casts on U/A, high Cr despite normal urine output. Now his Cr continues to rise, but his urine output is next to nothing. His U/A shows blood, but no RBC: Myoglobin nephritis::Diagnosis? NaHCO3, IVF::Treatment?"
"Pt w/ RBC casts on U/A: Glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"A postviral patient who develops RBC casts: IgA nephropathy glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"Pt who had pharyngitis and impetigo a little bit ago now has RBC casts: Post-Streptococcal glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"Pt who skin rash on face w/ RBC casts: Lupus glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"Pt with sinus, lung and kidney issues w/ RBC casts: Wegener's glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"Patient with hemoptysis and hematuria: Goodpasture's glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"Pt w/ asthma develops hematuria: Churg-Strauss glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"Pt who had a cold a little bit ago now has abd pain, palpable purpura and RBC casts: HSP glomerulonephritis::Diagnosis?"
"What is the clinical definition of CKD? Elevated Cr with > 3 months of reduced GFR (< 60mL/hr or Cr~2)"
"Stages of CKD I - Normal/High: GFR > 90 II - Mild: GFR 60-89 III - Moderate: GFR 30-59 IV - Severe: GFR 15-29 V - Kidney failure: GFR < 15"
"Treatment regimens for patients with CKD: - BP control <130/<80 = give ACE-i - BG 80-110: give insulin - HTN & electrolytes: have diet w/ low Na+/K+ - Hgb b/w 11-12: give EPO + Iron - Give  Ca2+ + Vit D to avoid secondary hyperparathyroidism"
"Hypertension and microalbuminuria resistant to ACE inhibitors can be managed with additional calcium channel blockers"
"Suspected acute megacolon and cecal dilation to <12 cm may be treated with NG tube and rectal tube insertion::2"
"Suspected acute megacolon and cecal dilation to >12 cm or signs of ischemia may be treated with laparotomy"
"NSAIDs or acetaminophen::2 are the first-line abortive treatment for children with migraine"
"Can clozapine be prescribed during pregnancy? Yes"
"Tumors located near the esophagogastric junction can be classified according to the Siewart classification"
"Perforated viscus may present with Rigler sign (double-wall sign), in which gas outlines the inner and outer surfaces of the intestine"
"Chronic or severe liver disease can cause respiratory alkalosis::acid/base abnormality"
"What is the most common indication for placement of a permanent pacemaker? Symptomatic bradyarrhythmias (w/o a reversible cause) e.g. AV block or sick sinus syndrome"
"What is the first-line treatment for symptomatic supraventricular premature beats (e.g. APBs, junctional) Reduce potential triggers like caffeine, EtOH, smoking"
"What is first-line treatment options for nonpurulent cellulitis w/ systemic signs of infection? (2) Nafcillin or cefazolin"
"Does cellulitis have defined margins? No"
"Pathogen for purulent cellulitis = S. aureus Pathogen for nonpurulent cellulitis = Strep. pyogenes"
"The next best test following a pulmonary nodule found on X-ray with possible growth is Chest CT"
"In ESRD, calciphylaxis is associated with increased levels of phosphate and PTH"
"In Guillain-Barré syndrome, elective intubation is given for patients with: - Decline in FVC >20mL/kg - Respiratory distress - Severe dysautonomia - Widened pulse pressure"
"Cholinergic::Sympathetic or Cholinergic receptors are found on the dome of the bladder, but not known to be present on the ureter"
"What other condition often coexists with polymyalgia rheumatica? Giant cell arteritis"
"Prosthetic valve endocarditis = Staph. epidermidis::Staph. epidermidis/Viridans streptococci/Staph. aureus"
"Infective endocarditis in prosthetic valves is much harder to treat than in native valves T::T/F"
"What is the treatment for methicillin-susceptible staphylococci? Nafcillin (or oxacillin, cefazolin) Rifampin Gentamicin::3"
"Holosystolic murmur that increases on inspiration = tricuspid regurgitation"
"What are the drugs of choice to lower BP in severe preeclampsia (maternal hypertensive crisis > 160/110)? 1. IV Hydralazine 2. IV Labetalol 3. PO Nifedipine"
"Adolescent major depression may present with irritability rather than depressed mood"
"Methemoglobinemia will present with pulse oximetry readings of ~85% regardless of the true oxygen saturation level"
"Methemoglobinemia is a blood pathology that presents with saturation gap and a(n) normal PaO2"
"Patients with left-sided endocarditis are at an increased risk of pulmonary embolism F::T/F"
"What predisposes patients with right-sided infective endocarditis to pulmonary embolisms? Colonization of tricuspid valve → tricuspid regurgitation → thrombi formation → embolism"
"MCC of acute bacterial endocarditis? S. aureus"
"S. sanguinis belongs to what bacterial group? Viridans streptococci"
"MCC of subacute endocarditis in damaged native valves? Viridans streptococci"
"What is first-line therapy for HACEK organisms? 3rd or 4th generation IV cephalosporin"
"First-line therapy for HACEK organisms is IV ampicillin F::T/F"
"Bibasilar crackles, S3 gallop, displaced point of maximum impulse and lower extremity edema is suggestive of dilated cardiomyopathy::diagnosis?"
"Can obstructive sleep apnea cause hypertension? Yes; hypercapnia causes an increased sympathetic response"
"Is a HbA1c of < 7% an indication of well-controlled diabetes? Yes::Yes/No"
"When is medical therapy for symptomatic atrial premature beats (APBs) considered? After a trial of trigger avoidance (e.g. caffeine, EtOH, stress, smoking)"
"What is the treatment for a patient with asymptomatic atrial premature beats (APBs) at the time of ECG recording? Reassurance"
"Vasospastic angina = transient ST elevation::ECG finding"
"Abdominal bloating, food aversion, weight loss and abdominal pain/nausea following meals is suggestive of intestinal ischemia::diagnosis?"
"What AV Block is depicated in each of the leads? Top: Mobitz type I/Wenckebach Middle: Mobitz type II (2:1 block) Bottom: Mobitz type II (3:1 block)"
"How do you calculate LDL? LDL (mg/dL) = total cholesterol – HDL – (triglycerides/5)"
"What is the most important risk factor for peripheral arterial disease (PAD)? Smoking"
"Stage III peripheral arterial disease (PAD) = ischemic pain at rest"
"Pulmonary embolism is characterized by increased RA pressure, increased pulmonary artery pressure, and normal PCWP"
"Bilateral wheezing can occur in acute PE due to cytokine-induced bronchoconstriction in response to hypoxia and infarction"
"In a pregnant woman at 37 weeks gestation, continuous vaginal leakage of clear fluid for the past 2 days indicates rupture of membranes duration 48 hours"
"What is the most common cause of chronic aortic regurgitation in a young patient? Congenital bicuspid valve"
"In developed countries, myxomatous valve degeneration is the most common cause of mitral valve degeneration and subsequent mitral valve prolapse"
"What is the normal range for ankle-brachial index (ABI)? 1-1.4 Mild to moderate PAD? 0.40 - 0.90"
"Presence of PAD is a very strong predictor of co-existing coronary artery disease"
"What is the most common cause of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF)? Chronic uncontrolled hypertension"
"Elevated BNP = S3::S3/S4"
"Assessing hepatojugular reflux can help distinguish cardiac disease from hepatic disease in a patient presenting with bilateral lower extremity edema and ascites"
"Women < 50 years of age with atypical angina have a low pretest probability (< 10 %) of coronary artery disease (CAD) T::T/F"
"Stable angina = usually ST depression::ECG finding"
"Aspirin therapy reduces the frequency of unstable anginal episodes F::T/F"
"Can CCBs reduce anginal episodes in patients with stable ischemic heart disease? Yes!"
"What is first-line therapy for the treatment of stable angina? β-blockers"
"What is the mechanism by which β-blockers are able to relieve anginal pain? Decrease HR and contractility → reduces myocardial oxygen demand"
"Rheumatic fever = late mitral stenosis::mitral stenosis/mitral regurgitation"
"Causes of syncope: VV: Vasovagal O: Orthostatics M: Mechanical cardiac A: Arrhythmia N: Neuro P: PE E: Electrolytes"
"Why isn't antimicrobial prophylaxis, fluid support, or debridement necessary for 1st-degree burns? Keratin barrier remains intact (retaining fluid and barring microbial entry)"
"The presence of proteinuria in the setting of SLE should raise concern for lupus nephritis and requires that a(n) renal biopsy be performed"
"Why is the diagnosis of lupus nephritis important to make in the setting of SLE? Severity of the disease dictates treatment"
"OCPs and the estrogen-progestin vaginal ring can worsen preexisting hypertension due to estrogen-induced angiotensinogen synthesis"
"HOCM::HOCM/Long QT syndrome is more common"
"Opioids and other CNS depressants can cause rhabdomyolysis by inducing impaired consciousness with prolonged immobilization and ischemic compression"
"Systemic lupus ertheymatosus (SLE) symptoms? R: Rash A: Arthritis S: Serositis H: Hematologic disorders O: Oral/nasopharyngeal ulcers R: Renal disease P: Photosensitvity A: Antinuclear antibodies I: Immunologic disorder N: Neurologic disorders"
"What kind of drug is ketotifen? 2nd-gen antihistamine"
"What is the most characteristic feature of allergic conjunctivitis? Itching!"
"What is first-line treatment for hordeolum (stye)? Warm compress and massage"
"Treatment for allergic conjunctivitis? Cold compress::Warm/Cold compress"
"Symptoms of spontaneous episodic hypoglycemia that resolve with glucose administration or rest should raise concern for the Whipple triad"
"If hypoglycemia is not present at the time of evaluation, a(n) 72-hour fasting test is indicated"
"An oral glucose tolerance test is used to diagnose diabetes mellitus and impaired glucose tolerance in patients with insulin resistance"
"Pruritus is not associated with chronic venous insufficiency F::T/F"
"Ventricular aneurysm is a an early complication of myocardial infarction F::T/F"
"Pericarditis is a common cause of cardiac tamponade T::T/F"
"Methotrexate is not indicated for transplant rejection prophylaxis T::T/F"
"Triple therapy = PPI and clarithromycin and amoxicillin or metronidazole"
"Quadruple therapy = PPI or an H2-receptor antagonist, bismuth, tetracycline and metronidazole"
"Triple therapy treatment, but allergy to amoxicillin is managed with prescribe combo of metronidazole and clarithromycin::tx?"
"Asherman syndrome is characterized by normal FSH and normal estrogen levels"
"In the eyes, Huntington disease may cause delayed saccades"
"What is the effect of distributive shock on pulse pressure? Increased"
"What is the effect of hyperthyroidism on systemic vascular resistance? Decreased"
"What is the effect of thyrotoxicosis on catecholamine sensitivity? Increased"
"What is the effect of thyrotoxicosis on catecholamine release? Unchanged"
"Only prosthetic valves can lead to schistocytes F::T/F"
"Telangiectasia is a feature of carcinoid tumors T::T/F"
"Which IBD has oral ulcers? Crohn disease::Crohn disease/Ulcerative colitis"
"Which IBD has noncaseating granulomas? Crohn disease::Crohn disease/Ulcerative colitis"
"Smoking is a protective factor for which IBD? Ulcerative colitis::Crohn disease/Ulcerative colitis"
"What is first-line treatment for latent tuberculosis? Isoniazid"
"TIBC is elevated in the setting of sideroblastic anemia F::T/F"
"Along with cervical and axillary lymph nodes, infectious mononucleosis may present with inguinal lymphadenopathy"
"Nebulized glucocorticoids are the immediate treatment of choice for moderate-to-severe croup F::T/F"
"What does tthe SMORE mnemonic stand for with respect to acid-base pathology? If the pH changes in the Same direction as pCO2, the acid-base disorder is Metabolic; if pCO2 changes in the Opposite direction as pH, the disorder is REspiratory"
"What is the mechanism behind chronic respiratory alkalosis in the setting of pregnancy? Progesterone indirectly increases minute ventilation by increasing the sensitivity of the respiratory center to carbon dioxide"
"Primary dysmenorrhea occurs at the midcycle of the menstrual cycle F::T/F"
"Combined OCPs is the treatment for Mittelschmerz F::T/F"
"Human placental lactogen is a type of somatomammotropin"
"Productive cough, hemoptysis, fatigue, weight loss, history of tuberculosis and intracavitary mass on CXR is suggestive of chronic pulmonary aspergillosis::diagnosis?"
"How can primary hypothyroidism cause galactorrhea? ↑ TRH → ↑ prolactin secretion and TSH → hyperprolactinemia"
"What is the gold standard treatment for basal cell carcinoma (BCC)? Mohs micrographic surgery"
"Cryotherapy is first-line treatment for basal cell carcinoma F::T/F"
"What is the best initial imaging modality for patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis? Abdominal CECT scan"
"Why is an abdominal ultrasound not the best initial imaging modality for patients with suspected chronic pancreatitis? Pancreas is a retroperitoneal organ that is not easily visualized through the overlying bowel loops"
"Patients with VUR are at increased risk of developing ureter stenosis F::T/F"
"Why does normocytic anemia in a patient with CKD occur? Decreased production of EPO by renal peritubular cells"
"What is the patch test? Gold standard for diagnosis of contact dermatitis (type IV HSR)"
"The severity of previous allergic reactions predicts the severity of future reactions F::T/F"
"Joint space narrowing and bone erosions describes which of the following: Rheumatoid arthritis::Rheumatoid arthritis/Osteoarthritis"
"Exercise should be avoided 5-6 hours before bedtime for insomniacs T::T/F"
"An 18-month-old child should be able to say several single words T::T/F"
"Common peroneal neuropathy = foot drop and weak eversion::PE finding?"
"What is the most common complication peptic ulcer disease? Gastrointestinal hemorrhage Second most common complication? Gastric perforation"
"Subhepatic abscess may result from a(n) perforated duodenal/gastric ulcer"
"All patients with cirrhosis should be regularly screened for major complications, in particular, esophageal varices and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)"
"CT scans are not the primary screening tool for early detection of HCC in patients with cirrhosis T::T/F"
"Indications for cell-free fetal DNA testing at >10wks gestation: - Maternal age >35 - Abnormal maternal serum screening test - Sonographic findings associated with fetal aneuploidy - Previous pregnancy with fetal aneuploidy - Parental balanced Robertsonian translocation"
"The vast majority of strawberry hemangiomas resolve spontaneously T::T/F"
"Pathophysiology behind situational syncope? Parasympathetic hyperactivity → peripheral vascular dilation and bradycardia → hypotension and ↓ cerebral perfusion"
"Neurocardiogenic syncope is a form of reflex syncope that is triggered by prolonged standing in the absence of sufficient compensatory HR acceleration"
"PSA is part of the workup for BPH F::T/F"
"What is the first step in the diagnostic evaluation of an individual with any urinary complaint? Urinalysis"
"BPH is usually associated with an unremarkable urinalysis T::T/F"
"The Tuberculin skin test (TST) is considered positive in HIV-positive individuals if the induration is ≥ 5 mm"
"Amantadine adverse effects include livedo reticularis, peripheral edema, and orthostatic dysregulation"
"The etiology of acute bronchitis is viral::viral/bacterial in > 90% of cases"
"What are the three most common viral etiologies of acute bronchitis? Influenza A/B Parainfluenza Adenovirus"
"What is first-line treatment for Lyme carditis? IV ceftriaxone"
"Where is hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) localized on the body? Folded skin areas (most commonly the axillae, groin, inner thigh, and perineal area)"
"What is the treatment for hidradenitis suppurativa? Abx, retinoids Reduce body weight, stop smoking"
"Obese woman, painful lumps in skin folds, fistulas w/ scarring, and drainage of malodorous, purulent fluid Hidradenitis suppurativa::Diagnosis?"
"Postpartum blues generally resolve spontaneously within 2 weeks::time?"
"What is a common endocrine complication of stroke? SIADH"
"What is the pathophysiology behind the euvolemia status in patients with SIADH? Volume expansion → induces RA stretching → ↑ ANP release → ANP acts on the kidney and induces ↑ water excretion and natriuresis"
"Peripheral edema is seen in SIADH F::T/F"
"Frequently ↑ serum uric acid values are seen in SIADH F::T/F"
"Up to 50% of cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) occur secondary to chronic hepatitis B infection"
"MCC of epididymitis in < 35 yo = Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae MCC of epididymitis in > 35 yo = Escherichia coli"
"- Pap smear should be performed every 3 years in women 21–29 years of age - Women 30–65 years should either continue a Pap smear alone every 3 years or preferably a Pap test and HPV test (co-testing) every 5 years"
"Individuals at increased risk of cardiovascular disease should have a screening serum lipid profile in adults of age 45–75 year"
"Screening for high blood pressure should be performed annually in patients > 40 years::age"
"What features are preserved in anterior spinal artery syndrome? Vibration and light touch sensation"
"What is the mechanism as to why OCPs increase risk for DVTs? Estrogen found within OCPs decreases protein S levels"
"Hysterosalpingogram is used in the diagnosis of PID F::T/F"
"Frequent vaginal douching to cleanse the inside of the vagina = risk factor for bacterial vaginosis"
"Bull's eye maculopathy = chloroquine maculopathy::diagnosis?"
"Vitamin A deficiency may cause night blindness, but it would typically present with keratomalacia and Bitot's spots"
"Chronic HCV diagnosis requires both a serologic test for the HCV antibody and a confirmatory molecular test for the presence of HCV RNA"
"In new-onset ascites, paracentesis with cell count and differential should be performed to rule out spontaneous bacterial peritonitis"
"Choriocarcinoma should be suspected in postpartum women with an enlarged uterus, dark, bloody vaginal discharge, and pulmonary infiltrates"
"What is the management of a simple ovarian cyst <5cm in size? Observe and repeat examination in 6wks"
"Cellulitis::Cellulitis or erysipelas is characterized by flat edges with poor demarcation"
"Erysipelas::Cellulitis or erysipelas is characterized by raised, sharp edges with good demarcation"
"High A1c, high random glucose and high fasting glucose is suggestive of inadequate basal insulin coverage::cause"
"After being dried and stimulated, a newborn should receive suction of the oropharynx and be placed on the mother's chest"
"What is the next step in management of hypospadias? Urology evaluation"
"What is the effect of subclinical hypothyroidism on TSH? Increased"
"What is the earliest sign of diabetic nephropathy? Microalbuminuria (30–300 mg/day)"
"Non-enzymatic glycosylation (NEG) makes the efferent glomerular arterioles more rigid, which further accelerates hyperfiltration and mesangial expansion"
"What are the four indications for elective surgical repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA)? Asymptomatic AAA ≥ 5.5 cm in diameter Rapid expansion (defined as > 1 cm per year) Symptomatic AAA of any size (as these are most likely to rupture) Saccular aneurysm of any size"
"White plaques (that can be scrapped off), dysphagia and HIV positive is managed with oral fluconazole::treatment other than antiretroviral therapy"
"Tophi is a complication of chronic pseudogout F::T/F"
"Calcification along the joint lines of cartilage is an additional finding in which of the following? Pseudogout::Gout/Pseudogout"
"Which HLA is associated with seronegative spondyloarthropathies? HLA-B27"
"In patients with SCD, osteomyelitis is most commonly caused by Salmonella species"
"IVIg is indicated for patients with Goodpasture syndrome F::T/F"
"What is dialysis disequilibrium syndrome? Development of acute cerebral edema d/t rapid extraction of osmotically active substances (e.g. urea, NaCl) can develop acute cerebral edema"
"In patients with stable angina and intermediate pretest probability of CAD, follow-up with cardiac stress testing should occur"
"Coronary angiography is reserved for patients with: - Evidence of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) - Stable angina with a high pretest probability of CAD - Stable angina with intermediate pretest probability and abnormal cardiac stress test results"
"Testing for antimitochondrial antibodies (AMAs) is highly sensitive and specific for PBC"
"Anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies (ASCAs) are found in 60–70% of individuals with Crohn disease and in 10–20% of individuals with ulcerative colitis"
"Whatis the most common cause of generalized lymphadenopathy in patients > 65 years? Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)"
"All diastolic murmurs are considered abnormal T::T/F"
"The best initial test to assess both the location and severity of the valvular lesions is a(n) transthoracic echocardiogram::TTE/TEE"
"Shoulder pain, tenderness of the greater tuberosity, positive drop arm test, limitation of external rotation and negative lidocaine injection = rotator cuff tear::likely dx?"
"The pediatric CXR below shows a patient with congenital diaphragmatic hernia :: "
"Hormone replacement therapy in women with an intact uterus is estrogen and progestin"
"Hormone replacement therapy in women without an intact uterus is estrogen"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a hemodynamically stable patient with vaginal spotting, tenderness in the LLQ, and previous abnormal vaginal discharge? Ectopic pregnancy"
"Carneous degeneration of uterine fibroids may present with uterine contractions, fundal tenderness, tender mass, and leukocytosis::FBC"
"Simple shoulder slings are used for the conservative management of nondisplaced clavicular fractures in which there is no neurovascular compromise"
"Other than X-ray, what is another appropriate step in evaluation of rotator cuff tears? Musculoskeletal ultraound (MSUS)"
"Pulmonary toxicity is responsible for most deaths associated with amiodarone therapy"
"Kidney stones are a common manifestation of pseudogout F::T/F"
"Ascending flaccid paralysis that progresses rapidly over 24–48 hours → can lead to respiratory failure due to respiratory muscle weakness and no fever or rash: Tick paralysis::Diagnosis?"
"Treatment for tick paraylsis? Locate and remove tick"
"Hypertension::Hypertension/Hypercholesterolemia is the greatest risk factor for both ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke"
"Iron is absorbed in what part of the GI system? Duodenum"
"Which medications are commonly associated with drug-induced esophagitis? Bisphosphonates Tetracycline NSAIDs Iron Potassium chloride::5"
"In the setting of pleurodynia, what can increased CK suggest? Intercostal muscle necrosis"
"What should a patient who is taking doxycycline and retinoids be counseled on regarding these medication side effects? Can both cause photosensitivity - so patient should avoid the sun"
"Polycystic kidneys tend to produce excess renin"
"USPSTF recommends clinicians screen for intimate partner violence in women of reproductive age"
"Bronchiolitis presents with wheezing/crackles::PE finding rather than stridor"
"Using the Ottawa Anke rules, an ankle X-ray is only requires if there is pain in the malleolar zone, plus one of the following: • Tenderness at the posterior lateral malleolus • Tenderness at the posterior medial malleolus • Inability to bear weight (both immediately and in the ED)"
"Dihydropyridine Ca2+-channel blockers (e.g. amlodipine) cause peripheral edema as a side effect due to preferential dilation of precapillary vessels (arteriolar dilation) which increases capillary hydrostatic pressure"
"Lipid screening should begin at age 35 (men) or age 45 (women) in 5 year intervals"
"Rapid Strep = negative Throat culture = positive Rapid Strep has low sensitivity::sensitivity/specificity"
"Initial management for fibromyalgia includes either SNRIs or TCAs F::T/F"
"NSAID (→ afferent::afferent/efferent arteriole constriction::constriction/dilation) and ACEi (→ efferent::afferent/efferent arteriole dilation::constriction/dilation) → ↓ GFR"
"What are the two indications for gastric bypass? BMI >40 that have attempted lifestyle modifications BMI >35 that have attempted lifestyle modifications and have comorbid conditions (e.g. HTN, T2DM)::Two population types"
"Fluoxetine is indicated for peripheral neuropathy F::T/F"
"β-blockers and TCAs are migraine prophylactics"
"Why are corticosteroid injections generally avoided in insertional tendinopathy? May cause tendon rupture"
"Dyslipidemia is diagnosed if LDL > 130 mg/dL and/or if HDL levels < 40 mg/dL"
"Defective bilirubin conjugation = Gilbert syndrome and Crigler-Najjar syndrome::which hereditary hyperbilirubinemia syndrome?"
"Impaired hepatic storage of bilirubin = Dubin-Johnson syndrome/Rotor syndrome::which hereditary hyperbilirubinemia?"
"First-line medication for Tourette's syndrome: Risperidone::Risperidone/Chlorpromazine"
"What is the pathophysiology of vision loss associated with giant cell arteritis (GCA)? Inflammation of branches of the ICA (e.g. posterior ciliary arterial branches of the ophthalmic artery)"
"Approximately 10–20% of patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA) will have involvement of the thoracic aorta"
"Salt retention is a feature of nephritic syndrome T::T/F"
"What is first-line treatment for vasomotor rhinitis? Intranasal antihistamines (e.g. azelastine) Intranasal glucocorticoids (e.g. fluticasone)::2"
"Intranasal sympathomimetics should not be used for more than three days because of the risk of rebound nasal congestion (rhinitis medicamentosa)"
"Ocular symptoms differentiate allergic rhinitis with vasomotor rhinitis (nonallergic rhinitis) T::T/F"
"Vasomotor rhinitis does not respond to treatment with oral antihistamines T::T/F"
"Histopathological examination would show an infiltrate of lymphocytes and plasma cells = HHV-8 virus::HHV-8 virus/Bartonella henselae"
"Which is a more common complication of Paget disease of the bone (PDB)? Impaired hearing::Impaired hearing/High-output cardiac failure"
"Hypertensive nephrosclerosis is one of the outcomes of ESRD F::T/F"
"Erythropoietin can lead to new-onset hypertension T::T/F"
"Amitriptyline is indicated for abortive migraine therapy F::T/F"
"What is first-line abortive treatment for children with migraines? NSAIDs/Acetaminophen"
"Shoulder dystocia is associated with turtle sign, which refers to retraction of fetal head into perineum after delivery"
"Cervical myelopathy::Cervical myelopathy or syringomyelia is more common"
"Toxic shock syndrome is a bacterial infection causing distributive shock that may result in hematological signs such as thrombocytopenia"
"Toxic shock syndrome is a bacterial infection causing distributive shock that may affect the liver, resulting in elevated liver enzymes"
"Toxic shock syndrome is a form of distributive shock that may affect the CNS, resulting in confusion"
"Toxic shock syndrome is a bacterial infection causing distributive shock that may affect the skin, resulting in a(n) diffuse erythematous macular rash"
"Meningococcemia is a bacterial infection causing distributive shock that may affect the skin, resulting in a(n) petechial rash or skin that is cool and mottled"
"Ureteral compression occurs in pregnancy from uterine enlargement and decreased ureteral peristalsis"
"What is the management of physiologic hydronephrosis of pregnancy? Reassurance"
"In a(n) open globe laceration, fluorescein stain may reveal extrusion of fluid through the laceration"
"In a(n) corneal abrasion, fluorescein stain may reveal a corneal defect and yellow colour"
"Is a female who has recently had unprotected intercourse during early follicular phase and a negative pregnancy test at risk of unintended pregnancy? Yes"
"What liver pathology is associated with a single large, smooth, round cyst with daughter cysts inside? Hydatid cysts from Echinococcus granulosis"
"What is the cause of low glucose in an exudative pleural effusion? Consumption by leukocytes and bacteria"
"Torsion is 10 times more likely in a(n) undescended::descended or undescended testis"
"Torsion of an intraabdominal testis is a testicular pathology that presents with abdominal pain, inguinal swelling and cryptorchidism"
"Atrial fibrillation may lead to pulmonary embolism due to atrial strain and increased right atrial pressure"
"What is the treatment for Campylobacter gastroenteritis? Symptomatic care"
"Cardiac output decreases during hypovolemic shock due to decreased preload"
"Can intestinal atresia be diagnosed with abdominal x-ray? Yes"
"Following diagnosis, what is the next best step in management of duodenal atresia? Surgical repair"
"The duration of viral conjunctivitis is 1-2 weeks"
"The duration of allergic conjunctivitis is 30min to seasonal"
"Does viral conjunctivitis present with ocular pruritis and eyelid edema? No"
"Does allergic conjunctivitis present with ocular pruritis and eyelid edema? Yes"
"An x-ray of the spine that shows focal, sclerotic, hyperdense lesions is suggestive of prostate cancer"
"Does renal osteodystrophy present with osteopenia and subperiosteal bone reabsorption? Yes"
"What is first-line therapy for nocturnal enuresis? Fluid restriction at night Behavioral training with a urine alarm"
"Nicotine patches are contraindicated in patients with angina pectoris F::T/F"
"What is done after cast immbolization for a non-dispalced scaphoid fracture? Monitor with serial x-ray to rule out osteonecrosis of the proximal segment and non-union of the fracture"
"Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) should be considered for asymptomatic patients with ≥ ≥ 80% stenosis"
"Clopidogrel is indicated for asymptomatic cartoid artery stenosis F::T/F"
"CHF → ↓ ejection fraction → ↓ stimulation of baroreceptors → ADH secretion::hormone? → fluid retention & hyponatremia::hormone's effect?"
"Alcoholic hepatitis typically has what AST/ALT ratio? AST/ALT ratio > 2 But > 1 is also seen"
"What primary headache type can cause a Horner syndrome? Cluster headaches"
"Exogenous hyperthyroidism (or factitous hyperthyroidism): - Symptoms of hyperthyroidism but no goiter - Low RAI uptake in scintigraphy::Scintigraphy finding?"
"Iron deficiency anemia in the elderly is assumed to be from GI blood loss until proven otherwise"
"Older patient with a 20 year history of GERD and new alarm symptoms (e.g. dysphagia/odynophagia) raises concern for esophageal adenocarcinoma Dx: Endoscopy with biopsy, CT scan for staging"
"Patient's asthma not well controlled on an albuterol inhaler alone (step 1 therapy) is managed with low-dose ICS should be added::next step in therapy"
"MCC of secondary HTN = renal artery stenosis"
"Progressive dyspnea on exertion, cough and mitral regurgitation in late pregnancy is suggestive of peripartum cardiomyopathy::diagnosis"
"On transvaginal ultrasound, a(n) benign cystic teratoma is characterized by markedly hyperechoic nodule with shadowing within cystic mass and calcifications"
"What is the age range of milk-protein-induced allergic proctocolitis? 1-12 months"
"Individuals age >15 require 3 doses of the HPV vaccine to achieve immunity"
"Individuals age <15 require 2 doses of the HPV vaccine to achieve immunity"
"Digitalis can increase heart rate due to ectopy of the atria or ventricles"
"What is the treatment for an ugly duckling pigmented skin lesion? Excisional biopsy"
"What is the treatment of a pigmented skin lesion that has palpable nodularity? Excisional biopsy"
"What is the treatment of a pigmented skin lesion that itches, bleeds, or is associated with local sensory symptoms? Excisional biopsy"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a cancer patient with hypotension, JVD, hypoxia and clear lungs? Massive pulmonary embolism"
"Diversion of urine from the urinary tract into the peritoneal cavity can cause urinary ascites and increased BUN and creatinine"
"Blunt lower abdominal trauma incurred during a night of heavy drinking leading to abdominal distension is suggestive of intraperitoneal bladder rupture"
"In invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, halo sign refers to nodular lesions with surrounding ground-glass opacities"
"Although obesity is a risk factor, slipped-capital femoral epiphysis may also be seen in tall, thin adolescents"
"Below is a fetal heart rate tracing with late decelerations"
"Below is an IUPC tracing with uterine tachysystole"
"What is the treatment for uterine tachysystole? Discontinue uterotonic agents"
"Is an uncomplicated seizure following DTaP vaccination a contraindication of future vaccination? No"
"Todd paralysis is a self-limited, focal weakness or paralysis that occurs after a(n) focal or generalized seizure"
"Hemiplegic migraine is characterized by migraine headaches accompanied by motor weakness during the preceding aura phase"
"The Reitan trail test is a timed connect-the-numbers test that helps detect subtle mental status changes"
"Amyloid angiopathy is the most common cause of spontaneous intraparenchymal hemorrhage"
"Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis is defined as 1 of the following 3 criteria: - Symptoms persisting for >10 days without improvement - Symptoms severe in onset (fever >39 C [102.2 F] and drainage) for >3 days - Symptoms worsening following initial improvement"
"Morton neuroma is associated with crepitus and pain on lateral compression of the metatarsal heads (Mulder Sign)"
"Landau-Kleffner syndrome is characterized by the regression of language skills at age 3-6 due to severe epileptic attacks"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an 18-month-old girl with seizures, lurching gait, loss of speech, and minimal hand use? Rett syndrome"
"What is the urine Na+ in patients with self-induced vomiting? Decreased (<20mEq/L)"
"What is the urine Na+ in patients with diuretic abuse? Increased (>40mEq/L)"
"In aortic dissection, pleural effusion may occur due to direct extension causing hemothorax or from inflammation"
"Pseudothrombocytopenia is a laboratory error caused by platelet aggregation in vitro"
"Does carpal tunnel present with sensory loss in the forearm? No"
"Does compression of the median nerve in the forearm present with sensory loss in the forearm? Yes"
"For accurate monitoring of patient with severe burns, a(n) urethral catheter is required"
"Thyroid storm is a severe endocrine pathology that may result in lid lag"
"STI prophylaxis regimens following a sexual assault commonly contain: - ceftriaxone- metronidazole- azithromycin"
"Epidermolysis bullosa is an inherited skin condition characterized by mutations of intraepidermal and dermoepidermal adhesion proteins in the basement membrane zone"
"Which type of parapneumonic effusion is characterized by low pH, low glucose, and neutrophilia? Empyema"
"Recently hospitalized patients who develop voluminous watery diarrhea, low-grade fever, and leukocytosis is highly suggestive of C. difficile infection"
"What is the most common cause of gastric outlet obstruction in adults? Pancreatic adenocarcinoma"
"Hyperglycemia in a malnourished, elderly patient with bitemporal wasting is highly suggestive of pancreatic adenocarcinoma"
"Inversion of the eyelashes is known as trichiasis"
"In cicatricial trachoma, the lashes rub on the eye and cause ulcerations and blindness"
"Below is a CT with intraperitoneal free air:: "
"What is the management of perforated viscus? Surgical exploration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a child that presents with injection and granular appearance of the tarsal conjunctivae unilaterally? Viral conjuctivitis"
"Is pyridostigmine effective in acute myasthenic crisis? No"
"Fragile X syndrome may present with hypermobility of joints"
"What is the recommended treatment for patients that develop type 1 heparin-induced thrombocytopenia? Continue heparin"
"Outpatient therapy is appropriate for patients with a CURB-65 score < 1"
"Serum uric acid is decreased in SIADH"
"Below is an abdominal x-ray of a child with necrotizing enterocolitis :: "
"HIV patients with Candida esophagitis more commonly present with dysphagia::dysphagia or odynophagia"
"HIV patients with Viral esophagitis more commonly present with odynophagia::dysphagia or odynophagia"
"What post-gastrectomy complication presents with GI symptoms and nutritional deficiency? Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth"
"Viral conjuctivitis is characterized by burning, gritty sensation"
"Allergic conjuctivitis is characterized by itchy sensation"
"Patients with tinea pedis may develop cellulitis as a complication"
"The most significant complication of idiopathic intracranial hypertension is blindness"
"Conservative management may be considered for older patients with varicoceles who have no desire for (more) children"
"Ligation of dilated pampiniform venous plexus may be considered for younger patients with varicoceles who have a desire for children"
"What is the management of acute cholecystitis in conjuction with cirrhosis and ascites? Abdominal paracentesis"
"In infants < 1 month old, only azithromycin::azithromycin or erythromycin is used"
"A plasma glucose level of less than 30 mg/dL in the first 24 hours of life and less than 45 mg/dL thereafter constitutes hypoglycemia"
"In inactive chronic HBV, HBe is negative"
"In inactive chronic HBV, Anti-HBe is positive"
"A Hepatitis B DNA viral load of >2,000IU/mL indicates active infection"
"Below is a fetal heart tracing of fetal bradycardia :: "
"Below is a fetal heart tracing of early decelerations :: "
"On endoscopy, vascular rings appear as deep impressions on the posterior aspect of the esophagus at T4"
"Oral candidiasis may bleed when scraped off"
"What is the next step in management for an afebrile woman with a simple breast cyst and who desires further testing? Needle aspiration"
"Administration of high-dose oral conjugated estrogen is the treatment of choice in hemodynamically stable women with acute abnormal uterine bleeding"
"What is the diagnosis in a pregnant female with painful third-trimester bleeding, tender abdomen, an irregular mass, and prior cocaine use and c-section? Uterine rupture"
"First-trimester bleeding can occur due to subchorionic hematoma, in which the chorion partially detaches from the uterus due to bleeding"
"A side effect of tacrolimus is hyperkalemia"
"During ventilation, increasing the FiO2 or PEEP are the 2 main methods of improving arterial oxygenation"
"To prevent cardiorespiratory arrest and permanent neurologic disability, victims of smoke inhalation injury should be treated empirically for cyanide toxicity"
"The health care proxy is in effect only if the patient is deemed to have insufficient capacity"
"By what age can an infant sit up unsupported? 7 months"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a preterm newborn that presents with feeding intolerance, abdominal distention, bloody stools, and lethargy? Necrotizing enterocolitis"
"Can patients with duodenal atresia present with yellow, seedy stools? No"
"Can patients with necrotizing enterocolitis present with yellow, seedy stools? Yes"
"Will ulnar nerve compression at the wrist cause decreased grip strength? No"
"Will ulnar nerve compression at the elbow cause decreased grip strength? Yes"
"Are antinuclear antibodies strongly associated with rheumatoid arthritis? No"
"In addition to hypoxemia, tachypnea, and CXR infiltrates, aspiration pneumonitis commonly presents with fever and leukocytosis"
"On chest CT, fat embolism may appear as bilateral scattered ground-glass opacities"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with suspected vertebral metastasis? MRI of the spine"
"What is the first-line treatment for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy? Ursodeoxycholic acid"
"What is the next step in management of a patient with multiple myeloma and Ca2+>14mg/dL? Treatment of hypercalcemia"
"Can slipped-capital-femoral epiphysis present with bilateral palpable inguinal lymph nodes? Yes"
"IL-12 receptor deficiency is an immunodeficiency that may present with miliary TB and generalized rash with hemorrhagic necrosis"
"Besides bone marrow biopsy, what is the next step in diagnosis of a suspected plasma-cell dyscrasia? Whole-body CT scan"
"Aneurysm is the most common local vascular complication of cardiac catheterization characterized by a(n) continuous bruit and palpable thrill."
"What is the recommended method of airway management in an unconscious patient with impaired respiratory status and suspected cervical fractures? Rapid sequence intubation"
"Macrolides are the treatment of choice for acute otitis media (AOM) in a patient with a previous immediate allergic reaction to a penicillin antibiotic"
"Midbrain atrophy with an intact pons is seen in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy"
"What is the treatment of acute ischemic stroke in patients <18 years old with sickle cell disease? Exchange transfusion therapy"
"In an unimmunized infant, acute diarrhea is more likely due to rotavirus::giardia or rotavirus"
"Takayasu arteritis is a type of vasculitis that may be associated with erythema nodosum"
"Does lactose intolerance affect the integrity or absorptive capacity of the small intestinal mucosa? No"
"Does celiac disease affect the integrity or absorptive capacity of the small intestinal mucosa? Yes"
"Contraindications to contraction stress tests include contraindications to labor: - placenta previa - prior myomectomy - prior classical c-section"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant patient with no history of preterm labor and a cervix > 2.5 cm on TVUS? Routine obstetric care"
"Lung abscess is a pulmonary pathology that may present with hyponatremia due to infection-induced ADH secretion"
"Below is a CT of a(n) lung abscess"
"Uterine sarcoma is an obstetric malignancy that is often indistinguishable from a leiomyoma"
"Uterine sarcoma is an obstetric malignancy that has increased frequency following pelvic radiation and tamoxifen use"
"The upper limit normal of LDH is 250IU/L and 2/3 of the upper limit normal of LDH is 166IU/L"
"Neuropsychiatric manifestations of Wilson disease include tremor, dysarthria, parkinsonism, and dementia"
"Severe hypospadias may present with the urethral opening on the perineum or scrotum"
"Can vitamin B12 deficiency occur in a subtotal gastrectomy? Yes"
"In megaloblastic anemia, immature megaloblasts in the bone marrow can rupture, releasing LDH and unconjugated bilirubin"
"Pancreaticopleural fistula can lead to an amylase-rich exudative pleural effusion with pH > 7"
"Esophageal rupture can lead to an amylase-rich exudative pleural effusion with pH < 6"
"The incubation period of norovirus is 12-48 hours, after which it causes watery, non-bloody diarrhea"
"Below is a babygram of a patient with NRDS :: "
"The PCA supplies the thalamus, which when infarcted can cause thalamic syndrome with contralateral sensory abnormalities"
"β-adrenergic antagonists are associated with reduced insulin sensitivity and increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes"
"In a patient who is unresponsive, the tongue may fall back and the pharyngeal muscles may collapse, causing airway obstruction"
"What is the most reliable form of contraception in the postpartum period? Subdermal progestin-releasing implant"
"Turner syndrome can affect the back, leading to scoliosis"
"In scoliosis, a Cobb angle of 10-30 degrees is treated with clinical monitoring every 6 months"
"In scoliosis, a Cobb angle of >30 degrees is treated with thoracolumbosacral spinal brace"
"In scoliosis, a Cobb angle of >40-50 degrees is treated with surgical fixation"
"Primary::Primary/secondary dysmenorrhea is characterized by midline::location pelvic pain"
"One of the features of endometriosis is dyspareunia, which is worse with deep penetration"
"Does slipped-capital-femoral epiphysis present with fever? No"
"The ophthalmoplegia in Graves disease may cause decreased convergence and diplopia"
"Patellofemoral pain syndrome may lead to atrophy or weakness of the quadriceps"
"Pain upon isometric contraction of the quadriceps (patellofemoral compression test) is indicative of patellofemoral pain syndrome"
"What should be suspected in a neonate with abdominal distension, poor urine output, and respiratory distress? Posterior urethral valves"
"Treatment for a foreign body aspiration in a child is with rigid bronchoscopy"
"Splenic abscess is typically due to infective endocarditis"
"Can dronabinol be used to treat cancer-related anorexia/cachexia syndrome (CACS)? No"
"Non-exertional heat stroke is a form of heat stroke that typically affects elderly patients in the absence of strenuous activity"
"What treatment of ankylosing spondylitis is most likely to improve mobility? TNF-α inhibitors"
"What is the treatment for a pseudoaneurysm? Ultrasound-guided thrombin injection (forms a fibrin clot to stop blood flow to aneurysm)"
"Below is a CT of a patient with dementia, specifically vascular dementia ::"
"Frequent vaginal douching to cleanse the inside of the vagina, use of soaps with perfumes, and irritating chemicals are risk factors for bacterial vaginosis"
"Below is a fetal heart tracing of intermittent variable decelerations :: "
"Below is a fetal heart tracing of recurrent variable decelerations :: "
"Tullio phenomenon is characterized by episodic vertigo triggered by loud noises, occurring in the setting of a perilymphatic fistula"
"The babygram below shows a neonate with a(n) congenital diaphragmatic hernia :: "
"Antiemetics such as prochlorperazine or chlorpromazine can be used as monotherapy for acute migraine attacks, especially if the migraine is associated with vomiting"
"In a patient with left-sided pneumonia, placement into the left lateral decubitus position results in increased perfusion of the non-ventilated alveoli"
"Aneurysmal bone cysts most typically localize to the spine, femur, and tibia"
"Langerhans cell histiocytosis presents as painful, single or multiple osteolytic lesions that most commonly affect the skull"
"In newly diagnosed invasive ductal cell carcinoma, breast-conserving therapy and lymph node biopsy is performed before::after/before whole body PET/CT scan"
"Lemierre syndrome is a severe life-threatening infection that affects young patients and is usually caused by Fusobacterium necrophorum"
"Fusobacterium necrophorum is a gram-negative anaerobic bacillus that is part of the normal oral flora"
"In Lemierre syndrome, septic thromboemboli from the neck can seed other organs, leading to multiple peripheral lung nodules on CXR"
"A patient with difficulty swallowing due to food stuck substernally for 12 hours likely has food impaction"
"Eosinophilic esophagitis may present with an inability to tolerate liquids"
"Aortic stenosis may cause symptoms of angina when the aortic valve area is <1cm2"
"The most common cause of oligohydramnios at term gestation is spontaneous rupture of membranes"
"Treatment of a Neisseria gonorrhea positive, Chlamydia trachomatis negative patient is with ceftriaxone and azithromycin"
"Treatment of a Neisseria gonorrhea negative, Chlamydia trachomatis positive patient is with azithromycin only"
"In knee osteoarthritis, exercises to strengthen the quadriceps muscles can reduce abnormal loading on the joint and protect the articular cartilage from further stress"
"Below is a patient with shingles"
"Below is a patient with tinea corporis"
"Below is a patient with impetigo"
"Below is a patient with actinic keratoses"
"Giant cell tumor of bone is also known as a(n) osteoclastoma"
"What is the treatment for threatened abortion? Reassurance and follow-up ultrasonography"
"What is the treatment of a patient after resolution of atrial fibrillation, CHA2DS2-VASc score of 0, and occasional palpitations? Observation"
"Battle sign and CSF ottorhea is suggestive of a fracture of petrous temporal bone in the middle cranial fossa"
"VariZIG is recommended within 1 days of exposure in all non-immune pregnant women who have been exposed to persons with VZV"
"The incidence of lung cancer is 5x higher for patients with systemic sclerosis than that of the general population"
"Patients who present in preterm labor at >34 wks with breech presentation are managed with cesarean delivery"
"The X-ray below is a patient with osteoid osteoma"
"Long term (e.g. over 5 years), patients with Alzheimer's disease may present with personality changes, urinary incontinence::autonomic findings, and hallucinations::neuropsychiatric findings"
"Treatment with IV glucocorticoids should be initiated immediately in patients with RPGN"
"Curettage, laser surgery, or electrocoagulation are all treatment options for condylomata acuminata"
"Enteroscopy with small intestine mucosal biopsy should be performed if tropical sprue is suspected"
"What is the likely cause of hydrops fetalis in a pregnant woman with O- blood and a negative indirect Coombs test? Parvovirus B19"
"What is the likely cause of hydrops fetalis in a pregnant woman with O- blood and a positive indirect Coombs test? Rh(D) alloimmunization"
"Foul-smelling anal discharge, dyschezia, and a pustule-like anal verge lesion is suggestive of a(n) anorectal fistula"
"What is the management of a(n) anorectal fistula? Surgical evaulation (fistulotomy)"
"What is the next step in management of a post-op patient with hypotension, tachycardia, confusion, and abdominal dressing soaked with blood? Urgent laparotomy"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with HIV, decreased lower limb sensation, and numbness and pinpricks in his feet? Peripheral neuropathy"
"Herpetic gingivostomatitis causes multiple small vesicles in the anterior pharynx/lips"
"Hand, foot, and mouth disease, caused by the Coxackie A virus, can manifest as herpangina (multiple small vesicles) in the posterior pharynx"
"What is the diagnosis for mammography that shows an irregular mass with microcalcif‌ications and oil cysts, and a core biopsy that shows foam cells and muitinucleated giant cells? Fat necrosis"
"Does PE cause a new onset murmur? No"
"Acute myocardial infarction may also present with a new-onset left bundle branch block"
"Acute hemolytic transfusion reaction is an immunologic blood transfusion reaction that can lead to disseminated intravascular coagulation"
"Septic arthritis should be suspected in children with acute onset of fever and joint pain and swelling"
"What is the diagnosis in a febrile patient with a focal area of breast erythema, induration, and tenderness? Lactational mastitis"
"What is the diagnosis in a febrile patient with a focal area of breast erythema, fluctuation, and tenderness? Breast abscess"
"Which pelvic tumor is characterized on ultrasound by a heterogenous mass composed of small, cystic structures? Hydatidiform mole"
"Clear cell renal carcinoma is often preceded by the formation of multiple renal cysts"
"In Von Hippel-Lindau disease, hemangioblastomas occur in the cerebellum and retina"
"In alpha thalassemia, there is a(n) increase in RBC count"
"In addition to first trimester screening, high risk patients require repeat screening for STIs in the third trimester"
"MDMA (ecstasy) intoxication causes pupil dilation"
"Up to 50% of cases of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) occur secondary to chronic HBV infection"
"What is the first-line medication for postherpetic neuralgia? TCAs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient on several medications with swelling and tenderness of the hand and knee joints and acute pericarditis? Drug-induced lupus"
"What is the cause of this maculopapular rash which also spread to the hands and soles of the feet? Secondary syphilis"
"What is the cause of this pruritic, papulosquamous rash which does not spread? Pityriasis rosea"
"In cardiac tamponade, decreased cardiac ouput arises due to decreased left ventricular preload"
"Malignant melanoma is the most common cause of gallbladder metastasis"
"ECG should be done in all newly diagnosed hypertensive patients to look for changes associated with hypertensive heart disease"
"Intermittent variable decelerations are typically well tolerated by the fetus and require no intervention"
"Empirical therapy with PPIs is indicated only in patients with dyspepsia, heart burn and regurgitation"
"What is the creatinine/albumin ratio in diabetic patients is an indication for ACE inhibitors? 30-300mg/g"
"Are ACE inhibitors indicated in a patient with diabetes and albumin/creatinine ratio of 15mg/g? No"
"Like gout, pseudogout can also arise in acute attacks with onset within hours to days::duration"
"Joint pain in lyme disease is typically severe, while joint pain in hemarthrosis is mild (mild/severe)"
"All pregnant women without contraindications should receive the inactivated influenza vaccination as soon as it becomes available"
"Vesicovaginal fistula can be confirmed using a(n) bladder dye test"
"Below is a fetal heart tracing of late decelerations :: "
"Can Lynch syndrome be treated with prophylactic proctocolectomy? No"
"Infants born to mothers with Graves' disease can rarely develop neonatal thyrotoxicosis due to the transplacental passage of maternal stimulatory TSH-receptor antibodies (TRAb)"
"In addition to antivirals, N-acetylcysteine improves transplant-free survival even in patients with non-acetaminophen-related acute liver failure"
"Below is a CXR of a patient with diaphragmatic perforation :: "
"Hemorrhagic skin necrosis is associated with warfarin-induced skin necrosis::HIT or warfarin-induced skin necrosis"
"Arterial or venous thrombosis is associated with HIT::HIT or warfarin-induced skin necrosis"
"The first-line surgical treatment for patients with epidural hematoma is urgent craniotomy"
"The second-line surgical treatment for patients with epidural hematoma is urgent burr hole evacuation"
"Is daily antibiotic suppression given to pregnant patients with suspected asymptomatic bacteriuria before urine culture? No"
"50% of patients with calcaneal apophysitis have bilateral disease"
"Calcaneal apophysitis is also known as Sever disease"
"Calcaneal apophysitis presents with a(n) tender::tender/non-tender heel and a(n) nontender::tender/non-tender achilles tendon"
"Calcaneal apophysitis presents with tenderness at the back of the heel"
"Friable perineal laceration and postmenstrual bleeding in an 80 year-old nursing home resident is suggestive of elder sexual abuse"
"Symptoms of orbital cellulitis include proptosis, ophthalmoplegia, and visual changes"
"In addition to food ingestion, infants may also acquire infant botulism through the inhalation of environmental dust"
"Clostridium botulinum spore inhalation has a particularly high incidence in California, Pennsylvania, and Utah"
"A young child with red, tender, and fluctuant mass approximately 2cm in diameter on the left anterior cervical chain is suggestive of unilateral cervical lymphadenitis"
"Lymphadenitis due to staph aureus or strep pyogenes often progresses to suppuration and abscess, which are identif‌ied by fluctuance on exam"
"Can image-guided biopsy be used for diagnosis of a patient with a malignant adnexal mass? No"
"Can exploratory laparotomy be used for diagnosis of a patient with a malignant adnexal mass? Yes"
"Miller Fisher Syndrome is a variant of Guillain-Barré that presents with ophthalmoplegia, cerebellar ataxia, and areflexia"
"Miller-Fisher Syndrome is a variant of Guillain-Barré that is characterized by antibodies directed at GQ1b"
"What is the next step in management of a patient with atypical chest pain and mesenteric ischemia and a normal ECG? Cardiac stress test"
"Is aortography used to diagnose traumatic rupture of the aorta? No"
"A diabetic ulcer with slough and a calloused margin (which inhibit healing) should be managed with sharp surgical debridement"
"Plasmapheresis is used in the management of autoimmune hemolytic anemia due to cold::cold or warm agglutinin disease"
"Trachoma conjunctivitis presents as follicular conjunctivitis, progresses to mixed papillary-follicular conjunctivitis, and may demonstrate corneal haziness with neovascularization"
"Vernal conjunctivitis is an IgE-mediated allergic conjunctivitis that presents with severe itching, reflex lacrimation, and giant cobblestone papillae"
"Cramping and vaginal bleeding that improves after passing tissue is typical of a(n) complete::complete or missed abortion"
"Closed cervical os with no cardiac activity and no vaginal bleeding is typical of a(n) missed::complete or missed abortion"
"Macrocephaly, tense fontanelle, and a positive sunset eye sign are suggestive of hydrocephalus"
"If percussion of the abdomen results in a thrill, this is suggestive of ascites"
"Patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm may present with a decrease in the ankle-brachial index"
"Fibrous thickening of the pericardium is characteristic of constrictive pericarditis"
"Acute pericarditis presents with a pericardial fluid accumulation"
"Acute splenic sequestration is a complication of Sickle cell disease that can cause hypotension due to occlusion of the splenic vessels and pooling of large volumes of red blood cells within the spleen"
"Is the superficial peroneal nerve responsible for foot dorsiflexion? No"
"A Chinese patient with persistent mid-epigastric abdominal pain, nausea/vomiting, weight loss, and microcytic anemia raises concern for gastric cancer"
"Fetal ultrasound showing a dilated fluid-filled stomach may be suggestive of duodenal atresia"
"What is the next step in management of a child after a febrile seizure with no neurologic abnormalities? Supportive care and reassurance"
"Tympanocentesis and culture during tympanostomy tube placement should be considered for acute otitis media when: - There are multiple episodes (>3 episodes in 6 months) - There are persistent middle ear effusion with hearing loss (>3 months)"
"Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate or fluoroquinolones are indicated for acute otitis media and refractory symptoms after 2-3 days despite amoxicillin therapy"
"Tension headaches may arise during times of stress"
"X-ray at the time of injury has low sensitivity for scaphoid fracture"
"Scaphoid fracture may present with tenderness proximal to the base of the first metacarpal, worse with radial deviation"
"Copper deficiency is a trace mineral deficiency that results in skin depigmentation, anemia, osteoporosis, and neurologic dysfunction"
"Chromium deficiency is a trace mineral deficiency that presents with impaired glucose control in diabetes"
"Selenium deficiency is a trace mineral deficiency that presents with thyroid, cardiac, or immune dysfunction"
"An abnormally elevated msAFP suggests a neural tube defect or multiple gestation, and warrants fetal ultrasound"
"Heterogeneous mass attached to the interatrial septum describes a(n) atrial myxoma"
"Perivalvular thickening with an echolucent cavity describes a(n) perivalvular abscess"
"Does a pancreatic pseudocyst cause weight loss? No"
"Both pancreatic adenocarcinoma and pancreatic pseudocysts may appear as a(n) anechoic subhepatic cystic mass"
"Pneumothorax may be associated with a(n) deep sulcus sign on supine chest radiograph due to subpulmonic accumulation of gas outlining costophrenic angle"
"Liver cysts caused by entamoeba histolytica appear on ultrasound as hypoechoic lesions"
"Do absence seizures present as episodes lasting 1-2 minutes? No"
"Do absence seizures present as episodes lasting 5-10 seconds? Yes"
"Do absence seizures present with a postictal phase? No"
"Can absence seizures present with automatisms? Yes"
"Can complex focal seizures present with automatisms? Yes"
"Granulosa cell::Ovarian tumor can cause peripheral precocious puberty"
"Autoimmune disease and a constellation of shock, abdominal pain, and fever directly after surgery are suggestive of adrenal crisis"
"Laryngomalacia presents with inspiratory stridor that improves while prone, whereas vascular ring presents with biphasic stridor that improves while extending the neck"
"In a patient with abruptio placentae at >34 weeks gestation and no fetal distress, management is vaginal delivery"
"A painless penile lesion followed by suppurative lymphadenopathy is suggestive of lymphogranuloma venereum"
"Orthostatic proteinuria is characterized by increased protein excretion only in the upright position more commonly occurring in overweight adolescents"
"Fever and elevated CRP and CA-125 in a patient with an adnexal mass is suggestive of tubo-ovarian abscess::malignancy or tubo-ovarian abscess"
"Is IM epinephrine indicated for anaphylaxis in the absence of respiratory symptoms? Yes"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a 16 y/o with HbA1c of 7.6% and BMI at the 95th percentile? Type 2 diabetes mellitus"
"Enzyme immunoassay for glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) antigen is one of the screening tests for C. difficile infection"
"What is the treatment for Staph aureus bacterial conjunctivitis? Topical erythromycin"
"What is the second-line treatment for Actinomyces (in patients with penicillin allergy)? Doxycycline"
"What initial test is used to determine the dose of anti-D immune globulin? Rosette test"
"Methylphenidate should be considered for terminally ill patients with limited life expectancy and severe acute depression and/or those at risk of suicide"
"What is the preferred emergency contraception in a patient who also wants to avoid future pregnancy? Copper IUD"
"What is the chemotherapy regimen for small cell lung carcinoma? Cisplatin-etoposide therapy"
"What is the next step in management of caustic ingestion, after decontamination? CXR; Endoscopy within 24 hrs::2"
"What is the treatment for an immunocompetent patient with suppurative sialadenitis? Nafcillin and metronidazole"
"What is the treatment for an immunocompromised patient with suppurative sialadenitis? IV vancomycin and meropenem"
"What is the diagnosis in an elderly patient with swelling and tenderness of the parotid gland and erythema with scant purulent drainage? Suppurative sialadenitis"
"What is the diagnosis in an elderly patient with swelling and tenderness of the parotid gland and calculi on oral exam? Sialolithiasis"
"The treatment for recurrent sialolithiasis is salivary duct dilation"
"Morphine, heroin, and codeine are natural opioids"
"Hydromorphone, hydrocodone, and oxycodone are semisynthetic opioids"
"Fentanyl, meperidine, methadone, and tramadol are synthetic opioids"
"Irregular, nonlobular infiltrates in the setting of blunt thoracic trauma is suggestive of pulmonary contusion"
"Early Lyme disease is diagnosed through clinical signs::clinical signs or ELISA/Western blot"
"What is the diagnosis in a child with hyperactive bowel sounds, no bowel movement in 3 days, and normal ultrasound? Functional constipation"
"Systemic sclerosis may manifest in the hands with contractures in the interphalangeal joints"
"Systemic scleroderma may affect the skin of the arms, chest, and back, leading to a(n) \salt and pepper\\" pigmentation\""
"Scleroderma renal crisis is associated with a(n) microangiopathic hemolytic anemia"
"Unilateral ear pain and no relief with pulling on pinna is suggestive of otitis externa"
"Synthetic cathinones are also known as bath salts"
"Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is the best test to diagnose acute limb ischemia"
"Dichorionic diamniotic twins are characterized by the lamda sign on ultrasound"
"Monochorionic diamniotic twins are characterized by the T-sign on ultrasound"
"Shin splints::Shin splints or stress fractures are more common in overweight individuals"
"Stress fractures::Shin splints or stress fractures are more common in underweight individuals"
"Shin splints::Shin splints or stress fractures present with diffuse, anterior shin pain"
"Stress fracture::Shin splints or stress fractures can present with point tenderness in the anterior shin"
"Indications for neuroimaging in a child with headache: - history of coordination difficulties - presence of numbness, tingling, or focal neurologic signs - history of headache that causes awakening from sleep - history of increasing headache frequency"
"Below is a CXR of a patient with sarcoidosis :: "
"In a newborn patient on ventilation, pneumothorax may present with respiratory distress, unilaterally decreased breath sounds, and increased brightness on transillumination"
"Below is a patient with lichen planus"
"Patients should be managed with empirical antibiotic therapy immediately if meningitis is suspected and any of the following are present: - Immunocompromise - Focal neurological def‌icits - Abnormal level of consciousness - Seizure at initial presentation - History of CNS disease"
"Following splenectomy, an adult should be vaccinated in the following manner: PCV13: 2 weeks after PPSV23: 10 weeks after Meningococcal: 2 weeks after Hib: 2 weeks after"
"Following splenectomy, should an adult receive daily antibiotic prophylaxis? No"
"Following splenectomy, should an child receive daily antibiotic prophylaxis? Yes"
"To grade GCS of eye opening: 4: Spontaneously 3: Verbal 2: Pain 1: No response"
"To grade GCS of verbal response: 5: Appropriate words and oriented 4: Appropriate words but confused 3: Inappropriate words 2: Incomprehensible words 1: No response"
"To grade GCS of motor response: 6: Obeys commands 5: Localizes pain stimulus 4: Withdraws from pain 3: Decorticate posture 2: Decerebrate posture 1: No response"
"Whipple's triad can be used to help diagnose insulinoma, surriptitious injection of insulin, or ingestion of insulin secretagogues"
"Spurling's maneuver is a neck compression test that is used for diagnosis of cervical spine radiculopathy"
"Spurling's maneuver involves tilting of the neck towards the affected side and application of downward pressure to the head"
"Guillain-Barré syndrome may cause autonomic dysfunction, which can cause bradycardia and other arrhythmias"
"In pediatric brain injuries, non-contrast CT is indicated for patients with altered mental status, loss of consciousness, and severe mechanism of injury (high impact, MVC)"
"In traumatic brain injuries to children <2 years old, non-contrast CT is indicated in patients with nonfrontal scalp hematomas and palpable skull fractures"
"In traumatic brain injuries to children >2 years old, non-contrast CT is indicated for patients with vomiting, severe headache, and basilar skull fracture signs"
"Is non-contrast CT indicated for a 3-year-old child who falls 0.6m? No"
"Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea can lead to parasomnias and secondary enuresis"
"Decreased respiratory rate is the most reliable and predictive sign of opioid intoxication"
"1-4 days postpartum, patients may experience lochia rubra, which is characterized by dark or bright red discharge"
"4-14 days postpartum, patients may experience lochia serosa, which is characterized by serosanguineous or brown discharge"
"11-50 days postpartum, patients may experience lochia alba, which is characterized by white, yellow, and creamy discharge"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with hypothyroidism and myasthenia gravis who presents with shallow respirations, tachypnea, and tachycardia? Myasthenic crisis"
"Neonatal circumcision significantly decreases risk of urinary tract infections in the first year of life"
"Neonatal circumcision prevents pathologic phimosis and moderately reduces risk of penile cancer"
"Neonatal circumcision reduces risk of penile inflammatory disorders, such as balanitis"
"Neonatal circumcision reduces risk of acquiring some sexually transmitted infections, such as HPV and HIV"
"After insertion of a progestin-releasing IUD, patients may experience 3-6 months::duration of irregular bleeding due to gradual endometrial thinning"
"Intermittent pelvic pain along with light vaginal spotting in a young female is suggestive of pelvic inflammatory disease"
"Isoniazid can cause hepatotoxicity, which manifests as mild hepatic dysfunction or acute hepatitis"
"Succimer is also known as DMSA (Dimercaptosuccinic acid)"
"Ecthyma gangrenosum is a skin condition associated with diabetes mellitus that typically progresses over the course of 12-18 hours"
"Pyoderma gangrenosum is a skin condition associated with Crohn's disease that typically progresses over the course of 1 month"
"Pyoderma gangrenosum is a dermatological condition that affects the extensor side of the lower limbs"
"Pyoderma gangrenosum is a dermatological condition on the lower limb that is characterized by a central necrotic base and purplish irregular borders"
"Patients with acute pericarditis are at increased risk for cardiac tamponade::cardiac tamponade or mediastinitis"
"Childhood insulin resistance may lead to a decrease in sex hormone binding globulin, resulting in increased levels of free sex steroids"
"Childhood insulin resistance is associated with peripheral precocious puberty"
"Unilateral sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus is suggestive of a(n) cerebellopontine tumor"
"In organophosphate poisoning, atropine is given first; pralidoxime is given second"
"Cerebral edema is a complication in up to 1% of patients with diabetic ketoacidosis"
"Karyotyping of a fetus prior to delivery is obtained through a(n) amniocentesis"
"Karyotyping of a fetus after delivery is obtained through a(n) tissue sample"
"What is the next best step in management of a stillbirth? Recommend autopsy of the infant"
"Nonallergic rhinitis is an upper airway pathology that occurs in patients >20 years old"
"Allergic rhinitis is an upper airway pathology that occurs in patients <20 years old"
"Nonallergic rhinitis is an upper airway pathology with perennial symptoms and no obvious trigger"
"Allergic rhinitis is an upper airway pathology associated with eczema and asthma"
"Nonallergic rhinitis is an upper airway pathology characterized by nasal congestion and postnasal drip"
"Allergic rhinitis is an upper airway pathology characterized by watery rhinorrhea and eye symptoms"
"In nonallergic rhinitis, nasal mucosa appears erythematous in color"
"In allergic rhinitis, nasal mucosa appears pale/bluish in color"
"What is the treatment for mild nonallergic rhinitis? Intranasal glucocorticoids"
"Rebleeding is a complication of subarachnoid hemorrhage that arises after 1 day::duration"
"Vasospasm is a complication of subarachnoid hemorrhage that arises after 3 days::duration"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a pregnant patient with Crohn's disease, abdominal pain, nausea, bilious vomiting, fever, and leukocytosis? Small bowel obstruction"
"What is the next step in management of a child with suspected inguinal hernia, vomiting, abdominal distension, and a discolored hemiscrotum? Emergency surgery"
"Is acyclovir given at >36 weeks in pregnant patients with a history of genital herpes? Yes"
"Is oral acyclovir given intrapartum in pregnant patients with a history of genital herpes and no lesions? No"
"What is the next step in management for a healthy patient with 16-mm induration at 48 hours following PPD testing, normal chest X-ray, and no acid-fast bacilli? 9 months of isoniazid and pyridoxine (B6)"
"Uremia presenting with encephalopathy, pericarditis, or bleeding is managed with urgent hemodialysis"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a female patient with postcoital bleeding, inguinal lymphadenopathy, and an ulcerative cervical lesion? Cervical cancer"
"What is the effect of Hyper-IgM syndrome on neutrophil count? Decreased"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a patient with previous percutaneous liver biopsy, RUQ pain, melena, and jaundice? Hemobilia"
"Hemobilia is a rare complication of hepatopancreatic interventions that is characterized by hyperbilirubinemia, anemia, and leukocytosis"
"Cerebral edema is a CNS complication of drowning"
"Arrhythmia is a cardiac complication of drowning"
"ARDS is the most common respiratory complication of drowning"
"Pneumonia is a respiratory complication of drowning that is more common with contaminated water"
"Cauda equina syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in bilateral, severe radicular pain"
"Cauda equina syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in saddle anesthesia"
"Cauda equina syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in asymmetric motor weakness"
"Cauda equina syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in lower limb hyporeflexia"
"Conus medullaris syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in severe back pain"
"Conus medullaris syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in perianal anesthesia"
"Conus medullaris syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in symmetric motor weakness"
"Conus medullaris syndrome is a pathology of the lower spinal cord that results in lower limb hyperreflexia"
"What is the diagnosis in a young patient with macrocephaly, ventriculomegaly, and a(n) intraventricular mass? Choroid plexus papilloma"
"Choroid plexus papilloma is a benign intraventricular mass that causes increased production of cerebrospinal f‌luid"
"Below is an MRI of a patient with a(n) choroid plexus papilloma :: "
"Peripheral vertigo is a form of vertigo that presents with nystagmus that is fatigable"
"Central vertigo is a form of vertigo that presents with nystagmus that is constant"
"Peripheral vertigo is a form of vertigo that presents with hearing loss or tinnitus"
"Does peripheral vertigo present with postural instability? No"
"Does central vertigo present with postural instability? Yes"
"Does central vertigo present with hearing loss and tinnitus? No"
"In ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, overexpression of VEGF leads to increased vascular permeability and capillary leakage"
"Malingering is a psychiatric disorder in which the intentional production of symptoms is motivated by secondary gain, such as avoiding work, receiving f‌inancial compensation, evading arrest, or obtaining drugs"
"Vaccination for HAV consists of a series of two shot(s) at age 12-23 months"
"Patients with a history of atopic dermatitis are particularly susceptible to HSV conjunctivitis"
"HSV conjunctivitis is usually unilateral and often presents with a(n) vesicular rash"
"Moderate ethanol intoxication may present with blood alcohol concentration between 0.15-0.3%"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a patient with positive HBeAg, positive anti-HBc IgG, positive HBsAg, and a mild increase in LFTs? Active chronic HBV"
"anti-HBc IgG indicates either that the form of Hepatitis B is either a(n) active chronic or inactive chronic infection"
"Propranolol and metoprolol are β-blockers that are used to treat Graves disease during pregnancy"
"Atenolol is a β-blocker that is contraindicated in pregnancy due to risk of fetal growth restriction"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a patient with dilated cardiomyopathy, supraventricular tachyarrhythmia, and no murmur? Tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy"
"What is the definitive management for a patient with a knife wound in the right fourth intercostal space and knife still in situ? Emergency surgery"
"What is the most common method of spread of septic arthitis? Hematogenous spread"
"Children with acute cerebellar ataxia secondary to VZV infection may present with broad-based gait, dysdiadochokinesia, and hyperpigmented macules on the chest"
"Multiple traumatic injuries, persistent oozing from wounds, and elevated PT, PTT, and bleeding time are suggestive of acute traumatic coagulopathy"
"What is the management in acute traumatic coagulopathy? 1:1:1 ratio of packed RBCs, fresh frozen plasma, and platelets"
"What is the preferred drug for treating performance-only social anxiety disorder? Benzodiazepines or β-blockers"
"Analgesic nephropathy is a renal complication of prolonged NSAID use"
"Dhat syndrome is a cultural syndrome in South Asia that manifests with psychological and somatic symptoms attributed to loss of semen"
"Patients with performance-only social anxiety disorder do not fear nonperformance social situations and are not socially avoidant"
"Which thioamide can cause agranulocytosis, propylthiouracil or methimazole? Both :)"
"Is pelvic floor therapy used as conservative treatment for complete pelvic organ prolapse? No"
"Are pessaries used as conservative treatment for complete pelvic organ prolapse? Yes"
"Primary prophylaxis against toxoplasmosis is required in HIV patients with CD4 count <100/mm and with positive Toxoplasma serology"
"Primary prophylaxis against VZV is required in HIV patients with close contact with infected persons and no history of infection"
"Is primary prophylaxis against HSV recommended for patients with HIV? No"
"Is primary prophylaxis against cryptococcus recommended for patients with HIV? No"
"Is primary prophylaxis against CMV recommended for patients with HIV? No"
"Below is a patient with erythema infectiosum (Parvovirus B19)"
"Treatment of choice in patients with primary CNS lymphoma is high-dose methotrexate"
"Does Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome present with muscular hemihypertrophy? Yes"
"Does congenital hypothyroidism present with muscular hemihypertrophy? No"
"Does Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome present with hepatomegaly? Yes"
"Does congenital hypothyroidism present with hepatomegaly? No"
"Does Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome present with mid-face hypoplasia? Yes"
"Does congenital hypothyroidism present with mid-face hypoplasia? No"
"Osteogenesis imperfecta is a pathology of collagen synthesis that may present with recurrent fractures, bowed legs, and joint hypermobility"
"Can MRI be performed on a patient with cochlear implants? No"
"In patients with contraindications to MRI, meniscal tear can be diagnosed by knee arthroscopy"
"Sclerosis in capillary tufts is a renal finding caused by chronic damage from increased capillary hydrostatic pressure"
"Below is a photo of a child with hair tourniquet syndrome"
"What is the second-line treatment for Acute Rheumatic Fever (in patients with penicillin allergy)? Clarithromycin"
"What is the antibiotic treatment for S. epidermidis prosthetic valve endocarditis? (3) Intravenous nafcillin + rifampin for 6 weeks + gentamicin for 2 weeks"
"Klinefelter syndrome is a disorder of sexual development that is associated with mitral valve prolapse::cardiac finding"
"What is the management for post-cholecystectomy bile leak? ERCP"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a newborn with pallor, edema, hepatosplenomegaly, petechiae, and an indirect hyperbilirubinemia? Rh alloimmunization"
"Malignant breast cancer may lead to hypercalcemia, either through bony metastasis or PTHrP production"
"Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a neurological disorder that on EMG and nerve conduction studies will show fibrillation potentials and positive sharp waves"
"What is the treatment for a panic attack in a patient with a history of hypothyroidism? Benzodiazepines"
"Decreased upward gaze is a normal finding in elderly patients"
"Is brisk rotatory nystagmus a normal finding in elderly patients? No"
"In addition to hip pain, patients with Slipped capital femoral epiphysis may present with knee pain, inability to bear weight, and knee \catching\\"\""
"Are hallucinations involving a living relative during a period of bereavement considered normal? No"
"Idiopathic precocious puberty is a form of central precocious puberty"
"Nonclassic congenital adrenal hyperplasia is a form of peripheral precocious puberty"
"Features of pancreatic cysts that increase risk for malignancy: - Large size (>3 cm) - Solid components or calcifications - Main pancreatic duct involvement (e.g. ductal dilation) - Thickened or irregular cyst wall"
"What is the next step in management after CT scan reveals a 4.6cm pancreatic cyst with thick walls, multiloculation, and dilated pancreatic ducts? Endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsy"
"In patients with a(n) anterior cerebral artery occlusion, involvement of the frontal cortex can cause flat affect and lack of motivation (abulia)"
"A recurrent or persistent nodule on the eyelid could actually be an underlying sebaceous carcinoma or basal cell carcinoma that is masquerading as a benign chalazion"
"Tuberculosis is the most common cause of constrictive pericarditis in developing countries"
"What is the most common cause of hematochezia in patients with ESRD? Angiodysplasia"
"The influenza vaccine is recommended during flu season, from October-May in the northern hemisphere and May-October in the southern hemisphere."
"For patients who have never received the rabies vaccine, rabies post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) includes the rabies immunoglobulin and rabies vaccine"
"For patients who have received the rabies vaccine, rabies post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) includes the rabies vaccine only"
"What is the prophylactic management against rabies for a patient with a high-risk wild animal bite and an animal that is available? Euthanize, test animal and start PEP if positive"
"What is the prophylactic management against rabies for a patient with a high-risk wild animal bite and an animal that is unavailable? PEP"
"What is the prophylactic management against rabies for a patient with a low-risk wild animal bite? No treatment"
"What is the prophylactic management against rabies for a patient with a dog, cat, or ferret bite and an animal that is available? Quarantine and treat accordingly"
"What is the prophylactic management against rabies for a patient with a dog, cat, or ferret bite and an animal that is unavailable? PEP"
"What is the prophylactic management against rabies for a patient with a pocket pet bite? No treatment"
"What is the first line treatment for performance-only social anxiety disorder? CBT + pharmacotherapy"
"What antibiotics can be used as postcoital prophylaxis against UTIs? TMP-SMX, nitrofurantoin, cephalexin, or fluoroquinolones::4"
"Electrolyte abnormalities due to succinylcholine can lead to a life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia"
"Are long-acting injectable antipsychotics a good choice as an initial agent to treat psychosis? No"
"Below is a CXR of a patient with reactivation tuberculosis :: "
"What is the initial management for patients <6 y/o with Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease? Limited weight bearing and physical therapy"
"What is the management for patients <6 y/o with refractory Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease? Casting and bracing"
"What is the management for patients >8 y/o with Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease? Femoral osteotomy"
"Is anti-D immunoglobulin given to O- patients following management of an ectopic pregnancy? Yes"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a clean or minor wound and an uncertain immunization history or <3 tetanus doses? Tdap"
"Below is a CXR of a patient with pulmonary embolism :: "
"Appendicitis presenting with >5 days of symptoms should be managed with a temporizing nonoperative approach followed by interval appendectomy"
"Cushing syndrome is more likely to present with hypokalemia::calcemia or kalemia"
"Decreased ovarian reserve::Decreased ovarian reserve or primary ovarian insufficiency leads to infertility with normal menses"
"Primary ovarian insufficiency::Decreased ovarian reserve or primary ovarian insufficiency leads to infertility with abnormal menses"
"Does cyclophosphamide cause peripheral neuropathy? No"
"Testicular torsion is a pathology of the testes that demonstrates heterogeneous echotexture on ultrasound"
"Testicular torsion is a pathology of the testes that can lead to a small hydrocele"
"Testicular torsion is a pathology of the testes that is associated with GI symptoms"
"Do inguinal hernias lead to an enlarged testes? No"
"Does testicular torsion lead to an enlarged testes? Yes"
"CHA2DS2-VASc score is used to determine the annual stroke risk in patients with atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter"
"What is the management for a patient with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and newly diagnosed atrial flutter? Anticoagulation"
"What is the diagnosis in a young patient with anterior cervical lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and bruising? Acute lymphoblastic leukemia"
"Acute lymphoblastic leukemia is a childhood cancer that may present with bruising, petechiae, and mucosal bleeding due to thrombocytopenia"
"Is it normal for elderly patients to be unable to remember specific instances of forgetfulness? No"
"Is it normal if elderly patients are concerned about memory loss? Yes"
"Is it normal if elderly patients are unable to recall important recent events and conversations? No"
"Is it normal if elderly patients are unable to operate common appliances? No"
"Is it normal if elderly patients get lost in familiar territory? No"
"In vulvar lichen sclerosus, lesions are typically multiple white papules that converge into plaques"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with vulvar irritation, excoriations, and an erythematous, friable plaque on the labia majora? Vulvar cancer"
"Below is an MRI showing a patient with hydrocephalus due to intracranial hemorrhage :: "
"Transverse myelitis is an immune-mediated disorder that primarily affects the thoracic spinal cord"
"Transverse myelitis is an immune-mediated disorder that leads to lower limb motor weakness, autonomic dysfunction, and sensory dysfunction"
"What is the management for emphysematous cholecystitis? Emergency cholecystectomy"
"What is the management for asymptomatic sarcoidosis? Monitoring"
"Peripheral facial nerve palsy following head injury with normal CT scan is most likely secondary to edema within the facial nerve canal"
"Is bariatric surgery contraindicated in patients with gastroesophageal reflux? No"
"What is the management for patients with allergic conjunctivitis? Cold compresses, topical ketorolac (NSAID), and topical ketotifen (antihistamines)::3"
"What is the recommended treatment for carboxyhemoglobinemia (CO poisoning) in patients with signs of confusion/agitation? Hyperbaric oxygen therapy"
"What is the management for patients with carbon monoxide poisoning? 100% oxygen therapy"
"Paget disease of the bone involves the skull in 40% of cases, which frequently leads to impaired hearing"
"What is the management for stable patients with acute mesenteric ischemia after medical therapy? Balloon angioplasty and stenting"
"Several hours after aspirin overdose, what is the serum pH? Normal"
"Korsakoff syndrome is a potential complication of Wernicke encephalopathy (Korsakoff/Wernicke)"
"If parkinsonism predates cognitive impairment by >1 year, this is suggestive of Parkinson disease dementia::Lewy body dementia or Parkinson disease dementia"
"If cognitive impairment predates parkinsonism, this is suggestive of Lewy body dementia::Lewy body dementia or Parkinson disease dementia"
"If cognitive deficits precede depressive symptoms, Alzheimer disease::Alzheimer disease or major depressive disorder is more likely"
"Fine needle aspiration of a breast cyst with yellow-tinged fluid suggests bloody aspirate"
"The NEXUS criteria provide indications for cervical spine imaging - Neurologic deficit - Spinal tenderness - Altered mental status - Intoxication - Distracting injury"
"What is the effect of maternal familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia on the fetal PTH? Decreased"
"What is the effect of maternal familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia on the neonatal calcium? Decreased"
"What is the management for K+ excretion in a patient with hyperkalemia due to chronic kidney disease, refractory to medication? Hemodialysis"
"Anorexia nervosa is a psychiatric disorder associated with the valvular condition mitral valve prolapse"
"Hydromorphone is stronger than hydrocodone (hydrocodone/hydromorphone)"
"The MRI below shows bilateral hyperintensity in the globus pallidus :: "
"Shifts in barometric pressure with a closed eustachian tube can lead to barotraumatic tympanic membrane injury"
"What is the management for barotraumatic tympanic membrane rupture? Reassurance and follow-up"
"On standard urine drug screen, atenolol and propranolol are antihypertensives that may be false positives for amphetamines"
"On standard urine drug screen, bupropion is an antidepressant that may be a false positive for amphetamines"
"On standard urine drug screen, venlafaxine is an antidepressant that may be a false positive for phencyclidine"
"On standard urine drug screen, nasal decongestants are anti-allergy drugs that may be a false positive for amphetamines"
"On standard urine drug screen, diphenhydramine and doxylamine are anti-allergy drugs that may be a false positive for phencyclidine"
"On standard urine drug screen, dextromethorphan and tramadol::2 are analgesics that may be a false positive for phencyclidine"
"On standard urine drug screen, hemp-containing foods may be a false positive for cannabis"
"1 week following a stressful event, would hallucinations be characteristic of acute stress disorder? No"
"Below is a patient with tinea versicolor"
"Rhabdomyolysis is characterized by myocyte necrosis, which may manifest clinically as lower limb swelling and pain"
"In HIV-associated dementia, subcortical dysfunction may lead to non-specific symptoms such as slow or jerky movements"
"With painless thyroiditis, thyroid scintigraphy shows decreased radioiodine uptake"
"The sequential PCV13 vaccine and PPSV23 vaccine should be given at least 8 weeks apart"
"What is the best diagnostic test for Boerhaave syndrome in an unstable patient? CT chest"
"What is the best diagnostic test for Boerhaave syndrome in a stable patient? Gastrografin contrast esophagram"
"β-blockers and calcium channel blockers are antihypertensives that can reduce the sensitivity of cardiac exercise stress testing"
"A small, chronic, painless, slow-growing ulcerative penile lesion in a patient with a history of phimosis, high-risk sexual behavior, and smoking is suggestive of penile squamous cell carcinoma"
"What is the treatment of an enterocutaneous fistula following abdominal surgery? Conservative management: TPN and ostomy pouch"
"What is the treatment for otitis media with effusion? Observation and follow-up for resolution"
"What is the next step in management for a teenager who expresses suicidal thoughts and uncertainty if they'll act on them? Emergency hospitalization"
"Persistent complex bereavement disorder is a psychiatric disorder characterized by prolonged grief, difficulty accepting the death, yearning for the deceased, and maladaptive thoughts"
"Eustachian tube dysfunction is an ear pathology that presents in children with retracted tympanic membrane, tinnitus, and popping with swallowing"
"What is the most common cause of mitral regurgitation in developed countries? Mitral valve prolapse"
"What is the management for when colposcopy shows CIN II or CIN III in a pregnant patient? Reevaluation with cytology and colposcopy 6 weeks after birth"
"With subdural hematoma, rapid increase in ICP is more likely to cause a(n) uncal::subfalcine or uncal herniation"
"2-3 months prior to hysterectomy for leiomyoma removal, Leuprolide can be prescribed to shrink large or multiple uterine leiomyomas"
"What is the management for pregnant patients with enterobius vermicularis infection? Supportive therapy"
"Are prednisone and indomethacin used in combination in the treatment of an acute gout attack? No"
"How is the diagnosis of acute limb ischemia made? Clinical diagnosis based on 6P's"
"Topical glucocorticoid eyedrops can lead to a(n) increase in intraocular pressure"
"Can patients with ADHD sit still and avoid fidgeting? Yes"
"Below is a patient with the rash lichen planus"
"Chylous ascites is a complication of abdominal surgery that can occur following liver transplantation or procedures involving retroperitoneal dissection"
"What is the most common condition that causes chylous ascites? Lymphoma"
"What is the treatment for infertility in functional hypothalamic syndrome? Pulsatile GnRH injections"
"What is the effect of digoxin on the PR interval? Increased"
"Below is an ECG with premature atrial complexes"
"What is the management for a patient with premature atrial complexes? Reassurance"
"Polymyalgia rheumatica is an inflammatory disease that presents with early morning stiffness, proximal muscle pain, and elevated ESR and CRP"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with constipation, obesity, voice hoarseness, indurated, cool, dry skin, and pretibial swelling? Myxedema"
"What is the diagnosis for an ECG with a Q wave in lead III, a constant PR interval of 0.15 seconds and every third P wave that is nonconducted? Mobitz type II AV block"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a pregnant patient with prior C-section, contractions, painful third trimester bleeding, and contractions that stop with the onset of bleeding? Uterine rupture"
"What is the management for a hospital-bound patient who develops burn wound sepsis? Vancomycin and cefepime"
"Fever and focal back pain and neurologic findings with a history of diabetes and back trauma is suggestive of spinal epidural abscess::diagnosis"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with chest wall trauma, elevated JVP, hypotension, and atrial fibrillation? Myocardial contusion"
"What is the management for acute flares of rheumatoid arthritis? Glucocorticoids"
"In any infection of the deep neck spaces, airway management takes precedence over any other therapeutic or diagnostic measure"
"What is the initial management for Ménière disease? Lifestyle adjustments"
"Dietary modifications for the treatment of Ménière disease include decreased intake of caffeine, alcohol and salt"
"Compression of the ulnar nerve within the Guyon canal results in decreased pinch strength, and decreased sensation over the little finger and medial palmar surface of the hand"
"Compression of the ulnar nerve within the cubital tunnel results in decreased pinch strength, and decreased sensation over the little finger, medial palmar surface, and medial dorsal surface of the hand"
"What is the surgical management for a patient with Crohn's disease and small bowel obstruction due to ileal strictures? Strictureplasty"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a patient with a tender breast lump and overlying pruritis, erythema, and edematous skin plaques? Inflammatory carcinoma"
"Hyper-IgM syndrome results in recurrent opportunistic infections, such as Pneumocystis, Cryptosporidium, CMV, Histoplasmosis, and Hepatitis"
"What is the most likely diagnosis for a patient with vulvar excoriations with thin skin, an anal fissure, and partial fusion of the labia minora? Vulvar lichen sclerosis"
"Incisional hernia is a post-operative complication that presents with small bowel obstruction and a tender, palpable mass in the area of the incision"
"What is the management for small bowel obstruction due to herniation and signs of bowel ischemia? Emergency laparotomy"
"What is the initial management for a patient with major depressive disorder, obesity, and desire to quit smoking? Bupropion"
"Lithium is a psychiatric medication that can cause hyperparathyroidism, leading to hypercalcemia"
"What is the ankle brachial index for diagnosis of peripheral artery disease? <0.9"
"What is the ankle brachial index for diagnosis of moderate/severe peripheral artery disease? <0.7"
"What is the ankle brachial index for diagnosis of critical limb ischemia? <0.4"
"After treatment of limb injuries, what is the management of a patient who has experienced a fall from height? X-ray of the spine"
"Chondrosarcoma is a bone tumor that on x-ray appears with osteolytic lesions and a(n) moth-eaten pattern of bone destruction"
"Chondrosarcoma is a bone tumor that appears on x-ray with chondroid matrix calcification and ring-and-arc sclerosis"
"What is the surgical management for uncomplicated hernia? Laparoscopic surgical repair"
"What is the surgical management for complicated hernia? Open surgical repair"
"Central retinal artery occlusion is an ocular emergency that can result in a relative afferent pupillary defect"
"Crystals and white blood cells on urine microscopy are findings consistent with crystal-induced acute kidney injury"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with positive urine pregnancy test and serum β-hCG of 800 mIU/mL? Transvaginal ultrasound in 4 days"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with positive urine pregnancy test and serum β-hCG of 6000 mIU/mL? Abdominal ultrasound during the same visit"
"Meltzer's triad (purpura, arthralgia, and fatigue) with increased serum concentration of polyclonal IgG and IgM is highly suggestive of mixed cryoglobulinemia"
"When testing for type 1 cryoglobulinemia with the cryoprecipitation test, positive results are possible within 24 hours"
"When testing for mixed cryoglobulinemia with the cryoprecipitation test, positive results are possible within 72 hours"
"The unpaired two-sample t-test is a statistical test used to compare the difference between a continuous outcome variable of 2 predictor group(s) at 1 point(s) in time"
"The paired two-sample t-test is a statistical test used to compare the difference between a continuous outcome variable of 1 predictor group(s) at 2 point(s) in time"
"Is dermatomyositis associated with intramuscular inclusion bodies? No"
"Gemcitabine and 5-fluorouracil are chemotherapeutic agents used for palliative therapy in nonresectable pancreatic carcinoma"
"What is the most likely diagnosis for an elderly patient with nausea, lethargy, polyuria, dry mucous membranes, and cough? Hyperosmolar hyperglycemic state"
"Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is indicated for patients with a periprocedural risk of stroke ≤ 3% who have a life expectancy ≥ 5 years"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with previous abdominal surgery, asthma, abdominal pain, and a gradually enlarging periumbilical mass? Paraumbilical hernia"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with previous abdominal surgery, asthma, and abdominal pain, anemia, leukocytosis, and a new periumbilical mass? Rectus sheath hematoma"
"Is atomoxetine used to treat ADHD in adulthood? Yes"
"Is clonidine used to treat ADHD in adulthood? No"
"Following resection of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, patients with positive surgical margins require repeat resection or hysterectomy"
"Following resection of high-grade CIN, patients with negative surgical margins require Pap smear/HPV testing at 1 and 2 yrs"
"Can paroxetine cause hypertension as an adverse effect? No"
"Lhermitte sign is seen in both multiple sclerosis and cervical spondylotic myelopathy"
"What is the diagnosis in a female patient with cyclical weight gain, depression, and binge eating, followed by weeks with good mood and diet? Premenstrual dysphoric disorder"
"Is statin myopathy associated with diplopia? No"
"Which neuromuscular junction pathology, MG or LEMS, is characterized by fluctuating muscle weakness? Myasthenia gravis"
"Which neuromuscular junction pathology, MG or LEMS, is characterized by proximal muscle weakness? Lambert-Eaton syndrome"
"What is the management of a patient with testicular pain, absent cremasteric reflex, and a negative Prehn sign? Surgical detorsion and bilateral orchiopexy"
"Are psychiatric notes included when a patient asks for access to their protected health information? No"
"Chronic tension headache is defined by episodes occurring at least 15 days per month for more than 3 months"
"Chronic cough in Pertussis leads to increased intrathoracic pressure, which subsequently increases risk of pneumothorax"
"What is the management of acute limb ischemia caused by thromboembolus? Balloon catheter embolectomy"
"In utero, Down syndrome is associated with short femur length, short fifth digits, clinodactyly, and a(n) small nasal bone"
"In patients with atlantoaxial instability, surgical fusion of C1 and C2 stabilizes the upper vertebrae, and thereby decreases compression of the upper spinal cord"
"Below is a T2-weighted MRI with high-intensity signal in the area of the temporal lobe :: "
"After birth, children should be given 400IU vitamin D until 1 year of age"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with macrocytic anemia, low reticulocyte count, hepatomegaly, and ringed sideroblasts? Myelodysplastic syndrome"
"In achondroplasia, narrowing of the foramen magnum may cause muscular hypotonia, apnea, or sudden infant death"
"Is urinalysis indicated for a patient with trauma and gross hematuria? No"
"What is the initial management for all patients with acute asthma exacerbations? ICS and SABA"
"A positive hepatojugular reflux indicates impaired relaxation of the right ventricle and consequent inability to accommodate an increased venous return"
"Preeclampsia without severe features is managed with delivery at >37 weeks"
"Preeclampsia with severe features is managed with delivery at >34 weeks"
"Temporomandibular disorder::Giant cell arteritis or temporomandibular disorder presents in young patients (<50 years old)"
"Giant cell arteritis::Giant cell arteritis or temporomandibular disorder presents in older patients (>50 years old)"
"Options for pharmacological management of an acutely agitated patient include the administration of a(n) benzodiazepine and/or an antipsychotic agent"
"In children, injury to the growth plate of the tibia or femur can result in limb-length discrepancy"
"The CT below shows a patient with a tibial fracture; Salter-Harris type III :: "
"Alcoholic neuropathy is a toxic neuropathy that typically results in a symmetric distal polyneuropathy with burning type pain"
"Malaria may present with jaundice of the skin due to intravascular hemolytic anemia"
"What is the management for Jarisch-Herxheimer reaction? Supportive - fluids, acetaminophen, NSAIDs"
"What is the likely diagnosis in an infant that presents with failure to thrive, absent lymph nodes, and leukopenia with a history of Pneumocystis jirovecii and Candida infection? SCID"
"What is the next step in management for a patient with a gunshot wound in the thigh and diminished distal pulses? Duplex ultrasound and CT angiography"
"A(n) soft sign of extremity vascular trauma includes diminished distal pulses"
"A(n) hard sign of extremity vascular trauma includes absent distal pulses"
"A(n) soft sign of extremity vascular trauma includes history of bleeding"
"A(n) hard sign of extremity vascular trauma includes pulsatile bleeding"
"A(n) soft sign of extremity vascular trauma includes bony injury"
"A(n) hard sign of extremity vascular trauma includes expanding hematoma"
"Infants born < 2000 g should receive their first dose of the HBV vaccine at 1 month of age"
"Infants born > 2000 g should receive their first dose of the HBV vaccine at birth"
"What is the next step in management for a stable patient with suspected vertebral osteomyelitis and no focal neurologic deficits? Imaging and biopsy"
"What is the next step in management for an unstable patient with suspected vertebral osteomyelitis and focal neurologic deficits? Empiric antibiotics"
"What is the diagnosis for a patient with an x-ray of the lumbar spine showing bone destruction, sequestrum formation, and periosteal reactions? Vertebral osteomyelitis"
"Intermittent strabismus is normal during the first 4 months of life"
"Strabismus may be treated with cycloplegic eye drops (penalization), such as cyclopentolate"
"Is gastroschisis associated with chromosomal abnormalities? No"
"Ureterorenoscopy with stone removal is a first-line therapy for patients with urinary stones in the middle or distal ureter ≥ 10 mm"
"Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy is used for ureteral kidney stones > 10 mm and is ineffective in morbidly obese patients"
"What is the management for a patient with suspected juvenile angiofibroma? CT head with contrast"
"Below is an ECG of a patient with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome :: "
"What is the management for dacryocystitis? Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate"
"What is the management for a patient with mild poison ivy dermatitis? Topical calamine"
"Can patients with signs and symptoms of appendicitis go straight to surgery? No"
"What is the management for female pattern hair loss? Topical minoxidil"
"Acardia, anencephaly, bilateral renal agenesis, and holoprosencephaly are all examples nonviable fetal diagnoses"
"What is the treatment for a patient with fibromuscular dysplasia with renal artery stenosis? ACE inhibitors and percutaneous transluminal angioplasty without stent placement"
"Obese patients who undergo bariatric surgery frequently develop temporary post-operative hypoxemia, resulting in lactic acidosis"
"Wedge resection is considered in patients with non-metastatic lung cancer and FEV1 < 1.5L or DLCO < 60%"
"Lobectomy is considered in patients with non-metastatic lung cancer and FEV1 > 1.5L and DLCO > 60%"
"Pneumonectomy is considered for patients with non-metastatic lung cancer located centrally and FEV1 > 2L"
"For a patient with pneumonia, scores should be calculated for CURB-65 and qSOFA"
"What is the number one modifiable risk factor for osteoporosis? Smoking"
"What is the management for a stable patient with bradycardia? Monitor with cardiac telemetry"
"What is the management for an unstable patient with bradycardia? Atropine"
"What is the management for an unstable patient with bradycardia refractory to atropine? IV epinephrine or dopamine or transcutaneous pacing"
"Sympathetic ophthalmia may present as unilateral or bilateral granulomatous anterior uveitis"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in an infant with difficulty swallowing, speaking, crawling, and sitting, with increased muscle tone and lesions on MRI? Spastic cerebral palsy"
"Women less than age 65 with increased risk of osteoporosis can receive DEXA scan early"
"What is the effect of non-classic congenital 21-β-hydroxylase deficiency on K+ levels? No effect"
"Carpal tunnel syndrome may be diagnosed by reproducing weakness, numbness, or tingling in the hand after holding it above the head for several minutes"
"The bulbocavernosus reflex is characterized by anal sphincter contraction upon squeezing of the glans penis"
"What is the management for a patient with positive drop arm test? Musculoskeletal ultrasound"
"What is the best test for the diagnosis of central cord syndrome? MRI spine without contrast"
"Signs of decreased bone marrow activity indicate a poor prognosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia"
"The first line treatment of ADHD is stimulants::CBT or stimulants"
"ADHD is a psychiatric condition in which children may not seem to listen when spoken to directly"
"Nasal septal perforation may develop as a complication of septal hematoma"
"Is septoplasty used in the surgical management of nasal septal perforation? No"
"pp65 antigen is a serum marker of CMV infection"
"Absolute contraindications for organ donation include metastatic malignancy, sepsis, spongiform encephalopathies, and cardiac arrest that occurred before brain death"
"Is organ donation contraindicated from patients with HIV infection? No"
"What is the first-line treatment for gigantism? Transsphenoidal adenomectomy"
"What is the recommended prophylaxis for a vaccinated healthcare worker that is exposed to blood from a hepatitis B positive patient? No intervention needed"
"What is the method of delivery of pentamidine? IV"
"Fat necrosis of the breast typically presents as an ill-defined, firm breast mass with overlying skin thickening or retraction"
"Muscular invasive bladder cancer is managed surgically with radical cystectomy (resection)::treatment"
"Is endometriosis diagnosed through transabdominal ultrasound? No"
"What is the likely diagnosis in a patient with erythema, pruritis, and white papules on the glans penis? Penile lichen sclerosus"
"What is the management for suspected penile lichen sclerosus? Biopsy"
"To be diagnosed with premenstrual syndrome, patients require >5 physical and/or behavioral clinical features"
"The presence of a single vertebral fracture in a patient with blunt trauma is an indication to image the entire spine"
"What is the effect of acute mitral regurgitation on left atrial size? No effect"
"What is the effect of acute mitral regurgitation on left ventricular size? No effect"
"Before extubation, patients intubated for medical reasons should undergo a(n) spontaneous breathing trial"
"How should physicians respond to patients leaving against medical advice (3)? Offer alternative treatment; offer to resume care if patient reconsiders; offer assistance with outpatient/follow-up care"
"For patients leaving against medical advice, physicians should offer to resume care"
"For patients leaving against medical advice, physicians should offer to assist with care in the outpatient setting"
"For pediatric simple febrile seizures, lumbar puncture is indicated with clinical features of meningitis or children ages 6-12 months without immunization"
"What is the recommended primary prophylaxis against mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) for HIV patients with CD4 count <50/mm? None :)"
"Is primary prophylaxis against mycobacterium avium complex recommended for patients with HIV on cART? No"
"What is the management for an intraarticular osteochondral fragment? Arthroscopy"
"Where on the chest is venous hum auscultated? Right supraclavicular area"
"What is the management for calcium-channel-blocker induced peripheral edema? ACE inhibitors or ARBs"
"Is cigarette smoking a risk factor for cellulitis? No"
"Grade I splenic injury is defined as laceration penetrating < 1 cm into the parenchyma or hematoma < 10% of the surface area"
"Grade II splenic injury is defined as laceration penetrating 1-3 cm into the parenchyma or hematoma < 10-50% of the surface area"
"Grade V splenic injury is defined as shattered spleen or devascularization of the spleen"
"What is the management for grade I splenic injury in a stable patient? Conservative management"
"What is the management for high-grade splenic injury in a stable patient? Exploratory laparotomy and splenectomy"
"One of the signs of the Cushing reaction is hypertension, which is caused by increased sympathetic tone"
"Diverticulitis with a large diverticulum may present with a(n) tender palpable mass on DRE"
"What structure is responsible for breast cancer metastasis to the vertebrae? Azygos vein"
"Fluid aspiration of a ganglion cyst will show paucicellular connective tissue, typically mucin"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in a patient with increased BUN and creatinine following cardiac catheterization? Acute tubular necrosis"
"The main clinical features of antidepressant discontinuation syndrome can be remembered with the mnemonic FINISH"
"The main clinical features of antidepressant discontinuation syndrome can be remembered with the mnemonic FINISH: Flu-like symptoms Insomnia Nausea Instability Sensory disturbances Hyperarousal"
"Patients with factitious disorder::factitious disorder or malingering are usually cooperative during their medical evaluation"
"Patients with malingering::factitious disorder or malingering are usually uncooperative during their medical evaluation"
"What is the most common form of melanoma in African-Americans and Asians? Acral lentiginious melanoma"
"Because cryoglobulins precipitate out of the blood at cool temperatures, they may present in the extremities with Reynaud syndrome"
"What is the management for Nelson syndrome? Radiotherapy of the pituitary"
"One contraindication to exercise during pregnancy is cervical insufficiency"
"What is the recommended management for a pregnant patient with history of >2 prior consecutive, painless, second-trimester losses? IM progesterone and cerclage at 14 weeks"
"Pheochromocytoma may be accompanied by unexplained fasting hyperglycemia"
"On abdominal exam, peritonitis is associated with a rigid and diffusely tender abdomen"
"In patients with SLE, thrombocytopenia may manifest through immune-mediated peripheral destruction"
"In patients with SLE, leukopenia may manifest through immune-mediated peripheral destruction"
"In utero, indomethacin can cause premature closure of the PDA, decreased renal perfusion, and fetal oliguria"
"What is the most likely diagnosis in an adult patient with sore throat, fever, neck tenderness, and stridor? Epiglottitis"
"In hepatic hydrothorax, right-sided diaphragmatic defects permit peritoneal fluid to pass into the pleural space"
"Hepatic hydrothorax is a form of pleural effusion that may arise in the setting of cirrhotic liver disease and ascites"
"Young children with PTSD may have nightmares and repetitive traumatic themes in play"
"Klinefelter syndrome may present with decreased libido"
"Klinefelter syndrome presents with sparse body hair"
"Androgen abuse presents with normal body hair"
"What is the management for a patient with post-ictal lactic acidosis? Conservative management"
"What is the diagnosis in a patient with patchy alopecia on the scalp without scarring? Alopecia areata"
"What is the management in a patient with mild alopecia areata? Topical or intralesional corticosteroids"
"EDTA is also known as calcium disodium edetate"
"Duodenal hematoma may arise in elderly patients due to anti-coagulation, which allows formation of an intramural collection"
"After cesarian section, patients may feel a(n) \pulling sensation\\" on the sides of an incision\""
"The American Heart Association recommend exercise stress testing for men >45 and women >55 years of age before they undertake vigorous exercise"
"Before starting ART, patients with HIV should be given the inactivated/killed influenza vaccine"
"Prior to dental procedures, antibiotic prophylaxis should be given if the patient has a medical history of infective endocarditis"
"Prior to dental procedures, antibiotic prophylaxis should be given if the patient has a surgical history of prosthetic heart valve or transplanted heart with a structural valve abnormality"
"Prior to dental procedures, antibiotic prophylaxis should be given if the patient has a surgical history of heart transplant with valve abnormality"
"Prior to dental procedures, antibiotic prophylaxis should be given if the patient has a pediatric history of congenital heart disease"
"What is the management for viral pharyngitis? Supportive care only"
"Oral amoxicillin-clavulanate or fluoroquinolones are indicated for recurrent acute otitis media (within 30 days) despite amoxicillin therapy"
"On standard urine drug screen, ketamine is an anesthetic that may be a false positive for phencyclidine"
"Mannitol and hypertonic saline are used as osmotic agents in the management of intracranial hypertension"
"What is the management in a patient with asymptomatic proteinuria? First morning urine protein/creatinine ratio"
"In an umbilical artery doppler, flow should not stop and should always be forward"
"What is the next step in the management of a pregnant patient with a finding of AEDV or REDV in umbilical artery doppler? Urgent delivery"
"Is routine screening for toxoplasmosis in pregnant women recommended? No"
"Diagnosis of toxoplasmosis infection in suspected pregnant women is done via antibody testing"
"What is the next step in the management of a pregnant woman who has an active toxoplasmosis infection? Pyrimethamine-sulfadiazine + leucovorin"
"In a mother with a toxoplasmosis infection, what is given to the newborn at birth? Pyrimethamine-sulfadiazine + leucovorin"
"80% of placental transmission of rubella occurs in the first trimester"
"Diagnosis of a rubella infection in a pregnant woman is done via antibody testing"
"Is screening for CMV recommended for all pregnant women? No"
"What is the pharmacologic treatment for a neonate born from a mother with a CMV infection? Ganciclovir or valganciclovir"
"What is the mode of transmission of herpes from mother to fetus? Genital tract lesions"
"The highest risk of HSV vertical transmission is with primary::primary or secondary infection"
"What is the treatment for a pregnant woman infected with HSV? Acyclovir for 7 to 10 days::drug + timeframe"
"What is the best mode of delivery of a pregnant woman infected with HSV? C section delivery after::before or after onset of labor, before::before or after rupture of membranes"
"What is the treatment for a pregnant mother with primary/secondary syphilis? A single dose of penicillin G IM"
"What is the treatment for a pregnant mother with tertiary syphilis? Three doses of penicillin G IM"
"What is the management of a pregnant patient with a positive antibody testing of parvovirus B19 < 20 weeks of gestation? Reassurance"
"What is the management of a pregnant patient with a positive antibody testing of parvovirus B19 > 20 weeks of gestation? Weekly ultrasounds"
"What is the treatment of fetal anemia in a pregnant mother with parvovirus infection? Intrauterine RBC transfusion"
"Are there any interventions to reduce vertical transmission of hepatitis C? No"
"What is the treatment for a pregnant woman who tested positive for chlamydia at her prenatal visit? Oral azithromycin (1 gram as a single dose)::dosage and ROA"
"A pregnant woman is treated for chlamydia & neisseria. When is the test of cure done? Two weeks after treatment"
"What is the preventative treatment for conjunctivitis in a neonate who's mother had chlamydia? Erythromycin eye ointment"
"How do you diagnose neonatal chlamydia infection? NAAT of conjunctival or nasopharyngeal swabs"
"What is the treatment for newborn gonorrhea infection? Ceftriaxone single dose IM/IV::Dosage and ROA"
"To decrease risk of zika virus infection in pregnant women, avoiding travel to endemic areas is recommended"
"One of the risk factors of spontaneous abortion is advanced maternal age"
"One of the risk factors of spontaneous abortion is prior pregnancy loss"
"What drug can be given after a complete spontaneous abortion to decrease infection risk? Methylergonovine"
"Implantation at time of menses can cause first trimester vaginal bleeding that resolves"
"Cervical trauma during intercouse is a cause of first trimester vaginal bleeding that resolves"
"Subchorionic hemorrhage is a cause of first trimester vaginal bleeding that resolves"
"Management of IUFD before 24 weeks is by dilation and evacuation"
"Diagnosis of fetomaternal hemorrhage is done by the Kleihauer-Betke test"
"A risk factor for intrauterine fetal demise is fetomaternal hemorrhage"
"More than 2 consecutive second trimester pregnancy losses is the diagnostic criteria for cervical insufficiency"
"Second trimester cervical length less than 25 mm on ultrasound suggests cervical insufficiency"
"Dilated and effaced cervix on physical exam is diagnostic of cervical insufficiency"
"A complete hydatidiform mole is p57 negative::positive or negative on immunostaining"
"A partial hydatidiform mole is p57 positive::positive or negative on immunostaining"
"In addition to methotrexate, what other chemotherapeutic agent can be used for trophoblastic neoplasms? Actinomycin D"
"Placental site trophoblastic tumor usually occurs after a(n) non-molar abortion or pregnancy::2"
"Placental site trophoblastic tumor secretes low amounts of hCG"
"Human placental lactogen is high in PSTT"
"The treatment for placental site trophoblastic tumor is often hysterectomy"
"What is the treatment for severe cases of twin to twin transfusion syndrome? Fetal laser coagulation"
"What is the treatment for mild twin to twin transfusion syndrome? Expectant management"
"Amnioreduction can be done for twin to twin transfusion syndome to resolve the polyhydramnios"
"Twin pregnancies are often delivered at 37 weeks"
"What is the mode of delivery of a patient who's pregnant with twins, twin A is in vertex position and twin B is non vertex? Trial of vaginal delivery or C section"
"What is the management of a patient who's pregnant with twins, twin A is in non vertex position and twin B is vertex? C section delivery"
"What is the mode of delivery of a patient who's pregnant with twins, twin A is in vertex position and twin B is vertex? Vaginal delivery"
"Thinning of the cervix during labor is called effacement"
"Bishop score is used to predict the success of labor induction"
"The components of the bishop score include: 1. Fetal station 2. Cervical dilation 3. Cervical effacement 4. Cervical position 5. Cervical consistency::5"
"What are the cardinal movements of the fetus during delivery? 1. Engagement 2. Flexion 3. Descent 4. Internal rotation 5. Extension 6. External rotation 7. Expulsion"
"Induction of labor is indicated in IUGR and oligohydramnios::two fetal conditions"
"Induction of labor is done in fetal distress F::T/F"
"In order to do induction of labor, bishop score must be > 6"
"What techniques are used to ripen the cervix? Misoprostol Prostaglandin E2 gel Mechanical dilators"
"C section indications are: Failure to progress Fetal distress Multiple gestation Macrosomia::fetus cant be delivered vaginally?"
"Increased::Increased/Decreased/Normal BMI is associated with increased length of first stage of labor"
"One cause of second stage of labor arrest is fetal malposition, most commonly occipitoposterior positioning"
"Rapid diagnosis of group B strep in a woman in labor can be done by NAAT"
"Recurrent late & variable::2 decelerations are fetal heart rate category III patterns"
"Fetal bradycardia is a fetal heart rate category III pattern"
"The management of category III fetal heart rate pattern is operative delivery"
"Sinusoidal pattern indicates severe fetal anemia"
"The second line management of recurrent variable decelerations is transcervical amnioinfusion"
"The strongest risk factor for preterm labor is prior preterm labor"
"Short interpregnancy interval is a risk factor for preterm labor"
"Polyhydramnios and multiple gestation are risk factors for preterm labor"
"Prior cervical surgery is a risk factor for preterm labor"
"What are the prophylactic antibiotics given to a woman with PPROM? Azithromycin and ampicillin"
"What is the first line tocolytic for preterm labor? Indomethacin"
"What is the second line tocolytic used for PPROM? Nifedipine"
"What is the next line in the management of a patient with a previous history of preterm labor and has a short cervix on TVUS? Progesterone and cervical cerclage::2"
"What is the next line in the management of a patient with a short cervix on TVUS and no previous history of preterm labor? Progesterone"
"The management of shoulder dystocia is summarized with the mnemonic BECALM: B: Breathe, do not push E: Elevate the legs C: Call for help A: Apply suprapubic pressure L: enLarge the vaginal opening M: Maneuvers"
"The more serious complications of shoulder dystocia are hypoxic encephalopathy and death"
"The risk factors of breech presentation are either limited fetal movement or excessive fetal movement"
"The contraindications of external cephalic version are the contraindications of C section: Prior C section Prior uterine myemectomy Placenta previa::3"
"The risks of external cephalic version include: Placental abruption Rupture of membranes::membrane complication Cord compression Uterine rupture"
"What are the associated poor outcomes of oligohydramnios? Umbilical cord compression Placental insufficiency Meconium aspiration Potter sequence"
"What are the treatment options for severe cases of polyhydramnios? Amnioreduction::procedure Indomethacin::medication"
"Gestational thrombocytopenia presents with nothing :)"
"The risk factors for uterine atony are: 1. Excessive uterine enlargement (macrosomia, multiple gestation) 2. Prolonged labor 3. Blockade of uterine contractions (fibroids, magnesium sulfate)"
"Risk factors for birth trauma include difficult deliveries"
"Management of birth trauma is manual pressure and surgical repair"
"Uterine inversion is due to excess cord traction"
"Normal postpartum changes include transient low grade fever, breast engorgement, and self limited hair loss"
"Uterine sub-involution can lead to late postpartum bleeding"
"Postpartum wound infections occur 4-7 days after C section::c section or vaginal delivery"
"Postpartum fever that does not resolve after antibiotics is suggestive of septic pelvic thrombophlebitis::what diagnosis?"
"A patient who presents with fever 1 week after delivery and has a(n) rope like mass on examination from uterus to lateral abdomen? Ovarian septic vein thrombophlebitis::very specific"
"Levonorgestrel IUDs are the safest and most effective contraception"
"The most common side effect of IUDs is altered menstrual periods"
"A rare complication of IUDs is uterine perforation"
"Contraindications of IUDs are: Anatomical defects Unexplained uterine bleeding Endometrial or cervical cancer Pelvic infection"
"The mini pill is composed of norethindrone::type of progesterone"
"The progestin implant contains etonogestrel::type of progesterone"
"Depo Provera contains medroxyprogesterone::type of progesterone"
"Progesterone only pills is associated with irregular uterine bleading::most common adverse effect"
"The historical clues for differentiating secondary dysmenorrhea from primary are: 1. Onset at age > 25 2. Non midline::site pain 3. No other menstrual symptoms::other menstrual symptoms? 4. Abnormal uterine bleeding 5. Dyspareunia or dyschezia 6. Symptom progression over time"
"Sliding sign test is used to diagnose endometriosis"
"Elagolix is a GnRH antagonist used to treat endometriosis"
"The treatment for adenomyosis if childbearing is desired is progestins"
"Vulvovaginal candidiasis unresponsive to azoles is usually due to Candida Glabrata::responsible organism"
"Candida Galbrata is treated with intravaginal boric acid"
"Patients with severe features of PID should be evaluated with a(n) TVUS::diagnostic test to exclude tubo-ovarian abscess"
"Tubo-ovarian abscess unresponsive to antibiotics is treated with image guided drainage or laparotomy"
"PID is usually treated in out::in/out-patient"
"Immunocompromised individuals should get a pap smear done every year until 3 normal pap smears then do it every 3 years"
"Uterine fibroids can cause size date discrepency during pregnancy"
"Medical treatment options for fibroids includes COCs, progestins, LNG IUDs, and GnRH agonists"
"Fibroids in women who desire fertility is treated with myomectomy In women who do not desire fertility its hysterectomy"
"Uterine artery embolization can be used to treat bleeding and bulk symptoms in fibroids"
"Uterine artery embolization is used only in pre::pre/postmenopausal women who do not::do/do not desire fertility"
"The source of estrogen in premonopausal women is from ovaries, in postmenopausal women it is from adipose tissue"
"Endometrial polyps::not hyperplasia are associated with unopposed estrogen"
"What is the management of a postmenopausal woman with a uterine polyp? Polypectomy"
"What is the management of a woman with endometrial proliferation shown in endometrial biopsy? Normal finding, treat based on symptoms"
"What is the management of a woman with endometrial hyperplasia without atypia shown in her endometrial biopsy? Progestins"
"What is the management of a woman with endometrial hyperplasia with atypia shown in her endometrial biopsy? Hysterectomy"
